Application PreferencesIn traditional desktop applications, preferences are application-specific settings used to configure the behavior or appearance of an application. iPhone OS also supports application preferences, although not as an integral part of your application. Instead of each application displaying a custom user interface for its preferences, all application-level preferences are displayed using the system-supplied Settings application.In order to integrate your custom application preferences into the Settings application, you must include a specially formatted settings bundleBundle-p3d14-A bundle is a directory in the file system that groups executable code and related resources such as images and sounds together in one place. in the top-level directory of your application bundle. This settings bundle provides information about your application preferences to the Settings application, which is then responsible for displaying those preferences and updating the preferences database with any user-supplied values. At runtime, your application retrieves these preferences using the standard retrieval APIs. The sections that follow describe both the format of the settings bundle and the APIs you use to retrieve your preferences values.Guidelines for PreferencesAdding your application preferences to the Settings application is most appropriate for productivity-style applications and in situations where you have preference values that are typically configured once and then rarely changed. For example, the Mail application uses these preferences to store the user’s account information and message-checking settings. Because the Settings application has support for displaying preferences hierarchically, manipulating your preferences from the Settings application is also more appropriate when you have a large number of preferences. Providing the same set of preferences in your application might require too many screens and might cause confusion for the user. When your application has only a few options or has options that the user might want to change regularly, you should think carefully about whether the Settings application is the right place for them. For instance, utility applications provide custom configuration options on the back of their main view. A special control on the view flips it over to display the options and another control flips the view back. For simple applications, this type of behavior provides immediate access to the application’s options and is much more convenient for the user than going to Settings.For games and other full-screen applications, you can use the Settings application or implement your own custom screens for preferences. Custom screens are often appropriate in games because those screens are treated as part of the game’s setup. You can also use the Settings application for your preferences if you think it is more appropriate for your game flow.
Note: You should never spread your preferences across the Settings application and custom application screens. For example, a utility application with preferences on the back side of its main view should not also have configurable preferences in the Settings application. If you have preferences, pick one solution and use it exclusively.
The Preferences InterfaceThe Settings application implements a hierarchical set of pages for navigating application preferences. The main page of the Settings application displays the system and third-party applications whose preferences can be customized. Selecting a third-party application takes the user to the preferences for that application.Each application has at least one page of preferences, referred to as the main page. If your application has only a few preferences, the main page may be the only one you need. If the number of preferences gets too large to fit on the main page, however, you can add more pages. These additional pages become child pages of the main page. The user accesses them by tapping on a special type of preference, which links to the new page. Each preference you display must be of a specific type. The type of the preference defines how the Settings application displays that preference. Most preference types identify a particular type of control that is used to set the preference value. Some types provide a way to organize preferences, however. Table 9-1 lists the different element types supported by the Settings application and how you might use each type to implement your own preference pages.