Full of gusto and confidence, and interest in pesticide-free tea or not. 
Today is worried about food safety, and pesticide-free is what I would like to introduce you to some examples of the benefits of tea or whatever. 
Drinking tea is made from a decoction of roasted barley seeds精SHI搗, less bitter, mellow taste and charm and a refreshing flavor and moderately spicy fragrance. 
Which is often drunk chilled in the hot summer. 
We always drink tea during a meal at home throughout the year for me. 
Easy for even children to drink does not contain caffeine, and drinking tea in a common family. 
In recent years, has been identified as effective in improving blood flow and the composition of pyrazine with a fragrant smell that is unique. 
To be effective to improve the flow of blood to clot can be difficult to get hard to keep blood platelets, which help to smooth the blood circulation and lower blood viscosity as a result. 
Is also said to reduce the temperature of the body more effective, but the water shortage in summer is the perfect beverage. 
Also, the pain is easier to drink the tea cold, chilled, and I take a bath as often as I rise to cool the body HOTETTA, it's best to drink up enough water to bath and I think. 
Such as tea, barley is a common ingredient of the pesticide being used. 
Organic cultivation in order to take the time and effort, as a company to mass produce is not realistic, it is difficult. 
However, the farm is run by individuals, who also is a thoroughly grown pesticide-free quality, and sell a pesticide-free tea. 
Of agricultural chemicals in tea are actually on the market, as well as chemical fertilizers pesticides, and the tea made of roasted barley and a non-application of fertilizer to grow pesticide-free施SAZU even organic fertilizer and compost. 
Domestic production alone is unusual in that the organic barley and barley is grown only in making the fertilizer施SAZU or even more. 
"Do not use fertilizer even" while watching the process of growth rather than that of agricultural crops untended, and the cultivation and care of it. 
As if to have children it is an encouraging growth in the image to listen to the voice of the crop. 
Vermiculate rare and very strong in the insects. 
I have a sense of expression, and love to spare no effort for these positions, feel and have a good effect on crops. 
Actually smell good and taste good with you and drink barley. 
香BASHI from the tea market has been generally modest, but the tongue is rolling on the sweetish taste of barley, however, will sweeten the潤SHI'm thirsty. 
Although organic products are generally expensive pictures for kicks, try the organic tea and a little sense?