AT&Tのユーザの人で、AT&Tの契約書を読んだことのある人いる？　読んだことがない人でも、今度ばかりは、2分ほど時間をかけてこれを読んだほうがいいと思うよ。そうなのよ、知らない間にきみは、このモバイルキャリアに対して集団訴訟をすることができなくなったのだ。おめでとう！
そのモンダイの箇所を引用してみよう:
この契約に基づくいかなる裁定も、個人ベースで行われる。集団裁定や集団訴訟は認められない。
つまり、この条項によれば、ユーザが今後AT&Tに対して集団訴訟を起こしたくなっても、それはできない。実に、単純明快だ。
ただし、10分ほど勉強してみたんだが、一方にだけ有利になるような契約条項の変更は、他方が違約金等のペナルティや課金等いっさいなしでその契約を破棄できる機会を生ずる。だからユーザが自分の利用企業に対して、必要なときでも集団訴訟ができないと分かったら、“契約を廃棄いたします。御社ががらくたにしてしまったiPhoneはお返しします”と電話で言えばよい。
AT&Tにとっては、良い夏ではないね。アップグレードのトラブルがあったし、その次はサービス中断でiPhoneおたくたちから嫌われ者になった。そして今度はこれだ。
ソース: Slashdot
AT&Tはこう言ってる: 
〔以下英文ママ〕
AT&T has not recently made any changes in its terms of service regarding our arbitration clause. This approach has been in effect since Jan. 2001. We have made minor changes to our arbitration clause – most recently in Jan. 2009 – but those changes have been to the benefit of the consumer.
・It is worth noting that this approach — an arbitration clause with a class action waiver — is standard for the wireless industry.
*We continue to believe that a consumer is better off pursuing a claim under our arbitration clause, rather than pursuing a class action. Arbitration is typically a fast, cost-effective, and pro-consumer way to address disputes, and AT&T’s arbitration agreement is among the most consumer-friendly in the nation.
*A federal judge in West Virginia, even before recent improvements to AT&T’s arbitration policy, praised it as “unusually consumer-centered.”
*Our current arbitration clause calls for the company — if it does not settle a consumer complaint and the consumer receives an award that is greater than the company’s settlement offer — to pay the greater amount of either the arbitration, or $10,000. This is what changed in Jan. 2009; previously the amount was $5,000.
*Likewise, if the consumer has used a lawyer in winning an arbitration case and is awarded more than the company’s settlement offer, the company would pay two times the lawyers’ fees. Finally, we pay the entire cost of the arbitration, except if a customer is claiming $75,000 or more.
[原文へ]
（翻訳：iwatani(a.k.a. hiwa)）