Ayabe City, and other tea-producing area covering one of the best tea in Japan. 
The old Japanese still life, tea is an essential importance. 
Tea has been cultivated in Japan since time immemorial, have been widely popular. 
I have a strong image of Shizuoka Speaking of tea-producing area, Kagoshima Prefecture and the other three are grown and flourished in Kyoto. 
Among the many tea in Japan, especially as represented by Kyoto Uji tea is established as a famous brand of tea. 
In addition to Kyoto, and Waduka length and Ayabe city is thriving on the production of tea covering. 
In Kyoto I have been making all the tea. 
Every year, the city is in such Ayabe "Oh, and all tea Festival" is about a lot of tourists and visitors from afar. 
The festival, which annually is in the early part of Sunday and can not be sold, or a taste of the tea made from tea, refined green tea and tooth Ayabe. 
Therefore, many people come to visit for a delicious tea. 
Needless to say, tea is more mellow and old tea flavor is not比BE物. 
Covering in particular tea is characterized by a strong and delicious taste sweet, you can enjoy the splendor. 
The cover tea, hot tea is made in Ayabe City, Kyoto, Mie and the Hokusei number is growing as new shoots in the sun当TENAI. 
The new shoots grow to cover the suprasegmental当TENAI direct sunlight, can maximize the full flavor and natural ingredients such as sweet tea. 
This is done to prevent the action from the point of catechin is more bitter ingredients. 
Also, to have a lucrative ATENIN is also a component of tea and you can enjoy a light blue and dark green color. 
So, in other名産tea while you can look that beautiful green tea fields spread, Ayabe city, coming to the tea-covered eyes like a black curtain I. 
May seem a strange sight at first glance, it's designed to make delicious tea. 
Ayabe, tea in the tea's full flavor is plenty of cover, known as a famous tea in the country. 
Award categories cover tea tea farm fairs across the country to do just that experience has won the first place. 
From around the awards in honor of this, that伺EMASU tea or how great the city of Ayabe cover. 
If you like coffee, tea and you want to check it once.