The tea crop is compared to a refined green tea and tea for a tea crop, people have an image that a component is being less and what not. 
This is a pretty big mistake, it is the component that contains a lot of good for the body of the tea crop in fact, if you think of health. 
Originally長KUNAKU refined green tea and have a period not to pick the leaves photosynthesis is popular as a delicious tea is not being generated for more than a bitter principle. 
Component of good health, however, is often due to the bitter component of tea catechin, it is by so doing increases photosynthesis, compared to early harvested tea like refined green tea and tea The composition is more like a late-picked tea is the tea crop and I'm good. 
Regard to flavor and ingredients, of course, increases the軍配for refined green tea, refined green tea and high-quality tea to the higher amount will become really picky about the taste of tea is also a large individual differences , that pales in the face of all the tea crop. 
Catechin component is included in the tea crop in fact, many are said to impact health. 
But for the typical anti GAN作, and prevention of obesity and tooth decay prevention, has just one element needed to reduce blood pressure and very modern. 
In addition, with antibacterial and deodorant effects, and keep together in出SHI殻tea that has a nasty smell and garbage, is effective only alleviate the smell. 
The other component of the tea crop, color and nutrients that are often insufficient for modern people, such as vitamins and dietary fiber are included. 
Tea leaf photosynthesis was good long before the sun, in particular, contains many blood sugar control ingredient called catechin and PORISAKKAROIDO. 
I want to note, however, PORISAKKAROIDO component of the tea crop in the fact that this is to heat. 
To take these nutrients directly and it is also heat-sensitive vitamins are the most efficient way to actually drink the tea crop in the water out. 
In fact tea, instead of as in boiling hot tea, and tea and tastes better and had a very long time in cold water. 
How to prepare this tea is very effective in spoiling the component to be included in the tea. 
Since the composition of the coarse green tea contains more active ingredients than refined green tea and other tea, the effect would be expected. 
On a hot summer night and sit down on the tea crop in the water and ice, but you can have a taste of the health component of culture and good old Japan.