商品の説明内容説明 In this newly revised book, Harold L. Vogel examines the business economics of the major entertainment enterprises: movies, music, television programming, broadcasting, cable, casino gambling and wagering, publishing, performing arts, sports, theme parks, and toys and games. The seventh edition has been further revised and broadened and differs from its predecessors by restructuring and repositioning the previous Internet chapter, including new material on the economics of networks and advertising, adding a new section on policy implications, and further expanding the section on recent theoretical work pertaining to box-office behaviour. The result is a comprehensive up-to-date reference guide on the economics, financing, production, and marketing of entertainment in the United States and overseas. Investors, business executives, accountants, lawyers, arts administrators, and general readers will find that the book offers an invaluable guide to how entertainment industries operate. Book Description Each year Americans spend at least 100 billion hours and over $100 billion on legal forms of entertainment. In this newly revised book, Harold Vogel examines the business economics of the major entertainment enterprises: movies and television programming, music, broadcasting, cable television, casino gambling and wagering, sports, performing arts, theme parks, and toys. This version differs significantly from its predecessors through its more globalized perspective: new dimensions of the international broadcasting, cable, film, and music industries have been added. The result is a comprehensive, up-to-date reference guide to the economics, financing, production, and marketing of entertainment in the United States and overseas. Investors, executives, lawyers, arts administrators, accountants, M.B.A.s, journalists and general readers will find that the book provides a strong foundation for understanding how entertainment industries operate. --このテキストは、絶版本またはこのタイトルには設定されていない版型に関連付けられています。