Price is the price of a VANKURI about 10 million yen to buy one even if the number is. 
Such amount is not easy to buy, one floating luxury jewelry brand is likely to want to do. 
Alhambra popular now in 20 million yen will be. 
Price is even higher VANKURI some 100 million yen of goods. 
The products in this high, except if you sell over the Internet, many items that are sold out. 
They are cases of celebrities wearing the famous to try and look at the TV, it seems some things have been introduced in the blog. 
And say you are what you use, Hitomi Kuroki, Henmi Emi dispersal,居MASU many women and has a nice IKKO. 
Who are active as adults than any woman, who is also the radiance of himself as unbeatable price of jewelry. 
The celebrity who has come to the party of the day, it seems that in some cases even tens of millions of yen VANKURI price. 
We may be unable to copy a bit, to an extent that I use only one accessory may叶U. 
Considering the price of VANKURI also, and very expensive items, many are also used as an engagement ring and wedding ring. 
I feel good that you made a purchase that would cost little as one organism jewelry. 
The thousands of accessories is going on and they faded after a few years once again. 
You should buy as the price of jewelry that we want to VANKURI. 
Pricing is used as a bridal or engage in a price band VANKURI place in general. 
From using the very good quality gemstones are used, but such is the price. 
Consider also the number of diamonds, many items have been used a few carats, and the price of natural VANKURI will be considered only in terms of quality. 
In addition, it is involved in the design, it is worthwhile to purchase items as bridal and engage in the design if desired. 
In the sense that they keep the shine for ever, 10 is recommended as a first wedding anniversary gift. 
Instead of just considering the price of VANKURI, many women prefer a nice design and it is one of the brands I want to present your jewelry, too. 
I like the motif of a butterfly and flower design.