Hypodermoclysis: An Alternative Infusion Technique 
MENAHEM SASSON, M.D., and PESACH
SHVARTZMAN, M.D. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Be'er Sheva,
Israel 
Hypodermoclysis, the subcutaneous
infusion of fluids, is a useful and easy hydration technique suitable for
mildly to moderately dehydrated adult patients, especially the elderly. The
method is considered safe and does not pose any serious complications. The most
frequent adverse effect is mild subcutaneous edema that can be treated by local
massage or systemic diuretics. Approximately 3 L can be given in a 24-hour
period at two separate sites. Common infusion sites are the chest, abdomen,
thighs and upper arms. The preferred solution is normal saline, but other
solutions, such as half-normal saline, glucose with saline or 5 percent
glucose, can also be used. Potassium chloride can be added to the solution bag
if needed. Hyaluronidase can also be added to enhance fluid absorption.
Hypodermoclysis can be administered at home by family members or a nurse; the
technique should be familiar to every family physician. (Am Fam Physician
2001;64:1575-8.) 
Hypodermoclysis is a method of
infusing fluid into subcutaneous tissue that requires only minimal equipment.
Technically, it is easier to administer fluids subcutaneously than
intravenously. During the past two decades, many articles advocating this
method have been published in the geriatric and palliative medical
literature.1,2 However, hypodermoclysis is suitable for use in many
hospital and home-care situations regardless of the patient's age.3
The advantages and disadvantages of this technique are presented in Table
1. 
Efficacy 
A 1991 study4 demonstrated the efficacy of fluid
absorption in hypodermoclysis. Healthy elderly volunteers were infused with
normal saline either intravenously or subcutaneously, using radioisotopic
triated water and technetium pertechnetate. The infusion included 750 IU of
hyaluronidase, and the saline infusion rate was 167 mL per hour. The absorption
of fluid via the intravenous route was almost identical to that with the
subcutaneous route in all subjects. Radioactivity could not be demonstrated at
the subcutaneous site 75 minutes after completion of the infusion. 
In an uncontrolled study,5 hypodermoclysis was used in 36
instances in nursing-home residents with a mean age of 85 years and was
associated with a return to clinical or functional baseline in 71 percent of
subjects one week after the end of clysis. In a further study,6 60
patients (mean age: 80 years) with cognitive impairment who required parenteral
fluids for at least 48 hours were randomly chosen to receive either intravenous
or subcutaneous fluids. After adjusting for baseline differences, no
differences in serum urea or creatinine levels were found between the two
groups 48 hours later. The cost was much lower in the subcutaneous fluid group,
and agitation related to the infusion was more prevalent in the intravenous
fluid group. 
Advantages 
Low cost More comfortable than IV administration Less likely than IV
administration to cause pulmonary edema or fluid overload Simple
insertion, less distressing than IV; easier reinsertion at new site More
suitable for home care than IV line, with less staff supervision and less need
for hospitalization Can be set up and administered by nurses in almost any
setting Does not cause thrombophlebitis Has not been shown to cause
septicemia or systemic infection Can be started and stopped at any time by
opening and closing the clamp on clysis tubing; no danger of clot formation
Disadvantages 
Usual rate only 1 mL per minute; only 3,000 mL (at two sites) can be given in
24 hours Limitations on administration of electrolytes, nutrition
additives and medications Edema at infusion site is common 
Possibility of local reactions