Terrier earrings are a symbol of the brand AGATA AGATA We are all very rich design pierced earrings in the shape or DAっDAっfairy earrings and a cute rhinestone ring. 
And no wonder, AGATA adults are filled with the charm of an elegant suite from a cute, casual and simple one is the feature-rich design that can not fit one in there. 
The brand is a concept that one is dealing with a product design that is cool AGATA from cute,飽KIMASEN to watch a wide range of products to be so casual. 
The reasonable price and come, it is an attractive and ideal for small gifts. 
Recommended TOSHIMASHITE terrier jewelry would be a symbol. 
It might seem at first glance look more children, in Paris is about the most popular items are also said to have a celebrity. 
Stone is full of earrings and you hear an SARI気NAI point and give the impression of small terrier is very cute. 
Though designed to pierce terrier and a variety of earrings from the same type as earlier terrier, also featuring things like a terrier to be based on the shell filled with high-grade, second in adults is loved It is impressive that there are influences. 
It is also a good simple silver. 
Piercing type terrier called Catch The accent is a good blues tone, you are enchanted by the gorgeous ear. 
It's a wonderful charming terrier is divided at the scene by design. 
Women and young adults to see why well-loved ages. 
I pierced the stone of an impressive red wine if you feel gorgeous in it. 
This design is almost similar to the chandeliers, is well suited for a little place where you want to OMEKASHI party. 
Please produce the ear of an adult full of charm. 
I ring and say the most simple designs. 
Stripe pattern in silver and shell, are building a very simple fashion and be fit? 
I think it fit to use in Sunday school. 
That would be good to the ear与ETAKUNAI a very strong impression. 
The major impact at the same simplicity of design? Circle. 
The swing and movement type,輝KIMASU shone brilliantly reflected in the stone line. 
Also match the necklace, I will give a more impressive to me. 
AGATA other accessories are popular charm, and charm of the Scottish terrier is a type of boot or DAっHeart, of course, champagne-like and has all the charm of manner. 
This charm bracelet you can make a bracelet based on the original set can be put in the zipper of the pouch. 
And I'll put a different charm to the scene, one is recommended because it offers a variety of bracelets bracelet.