Editor's Note: We're pleased to welcome Jason Harper, Vice President of IT and Nicholas Hatch, Director of Technology Operations for Morgans Hotel Group, as our guest bloggers today. In 1984, Morgans Hotel Group developed its first property, Morgans on Madison Avenue, in New York City. The Morgans experience was unique: balancing a casual ambiance with an emphasis on exceptional service in the tradition of the world's great hotels. The company now boasts a collection of luxury hotels including Delano, Mondrian, Sanderson and Clift in locations around the world like New York City, Miami, Los Angeles, Scottsdale, San Francisco, and London. Morgans is opening Ames, the latest addition to its collection of Morgans Originals, in Boston this November. Morgans Hotel Group recently selected Google Apps Premier Edition for its messaging and collaboration needs. If you'd like to hear more about their migration, join Jason and Nicholas on Thursday, August 13, at 10:00 a.m. PDT / 1:00 p.m. EDT for a livewebcast and discussion. Register here. I'm Jason Harper, Vice President of IT at Morgans Hotel Group. Along with with Nicholas Hatch, our Director of Technology Operations, we're sharing the perspectives of a medium-sized business – Morgans Hotel Group, a a hospitality company that operates, owns, acquires and redevelops boutique hotels – as we migrated to Google Apps. My team is responsible for IT operations globally. We support 1,700 employees in 10 different hotels, and we sometimes have to do so without staff on-site. By far, our number one application is email. I’d say people spend even more time in email than they do in our reservation system or other systems we use to run the hotels. People use it for everything – storing files, communications required to close deals on multi-million dollar properties – you name it. We were using Microsoft Exchange 2003 and knew our system needed an upgrade. We considered Exchange 2007 but didn’t want to find ourselves in the same place three years from now with an outdated system that we would have to upgrade ourselves. We were also spending a lot of resources on email server maintenance, disaster recovery and spam filtering. When we looked at Google Apps, it met all our requirements - and our budget. After we made the decision to switch to Google Apps, we deployed our first hotel in three weeks. Our biggest challenge in deployment weren't really technical - it was making sure our 1,700 employees transitioned smoothly. So, we brainstormed several ways to make the transition fast and smooth, including: Using the Google Apps Sync for Microsoft Outlook tool to convert employees' mail Launching a "marketing" campaign to generate employee enthusiasm Addressing the Microsoft Outlook to Gmail transition head-on ...and many other tips we'll review on the webcast this week. We've had some great feedback. Employees have thanked us for the switch, saying that they especially like: The easy access to mail and calendar whether they're using BlackBerrys or iPhones The SMS notification in Calendar to obtain updates, even using "regular" phones The ability to "meet" each other using Google video chat For IT, the priority was email reliability – and now we no longer have to administer email servers or pay for DR or spam filtering. The great news is that our users love Google Apps too. If you want to make your life easier while providing a superb solution for users, we're happy to answer your questions at our live webcast. Migrating from Microsoft Exchange to Google Apps Thursday, August 13, 2009 10:00 a.m. PDT / 1:00 p.m. EDT / 5:00 p.m. GMT – Jason Harper, Vice President of IT at Morgans Hotel Group Posted by Serena Satyasai, Google Apps team Find customer stories and research product information on our resource sites for current users of Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Notes/Domino. Get timely updates on new features in Google Apps by subscribing to our RSS feed or email alerts.