New Weekly Reports Bundle Economic and Financial Data   Economic Highlights and Financial Highlights are weekly digests that provide summaries of data releases such as employment, manufacturing, consumer spending, and financial markets. Subscribe to RSS feeds.     Regional Economic Update on the Southeast for July 2009   Track economic developments in the six Southeastern states with the latest reports and analysis of various data series, including the D6 Factor, a broad measure of the region's economic conditions. Subscribe to e-mail alerts.    Beige Book   Published two weeks prior to each Federal Open Market Committee meeting, the Beige Book reports on economic conditions in each Federal Reserve District.    The Peak Oil Debate   Has the world's oil output peaked, or will it peak soon? The author helps clarify this heated debate by providing definitions of frequently used (and misused) terms and discussing how technology, government policies, and prices influence oil production.    Atlanta Fed Economist Examines Housing GSEs   An Atlanta Fed economist has examined the events culminating in the U.S. government's placing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship. He also explores the effectiveness of the action and what it means for the mortgage market.  Podcast with Scott Frame (MP3 6:35)    Discussing the Financial Markets Conference   Atlanta Fed economist and associate policy adviser Paula Tkac discusses the Atlanta Fed's recent financial markets conference, titled "Financial Innovation and Crises," which examined turmoil in global financial markets. (MP3 7:58)    Beige Book   Published two weeks prior to each Federal Open Market Committee meeting, the Beige Book reports on economic conditions in each Federal Reserve District.    Reducing Foreclosures: No Easy Answers   "Unaffordable" loans, as measured at origination, are unlikely to be the main reason that borrowers decide to default. Rather, the typical problem appears to be a combination of household income shocks and an unprecedented fall in house prices.    Atlanta Fed Sponsors Quantitative Monetary Policy Conference   The Quantitative Approaches to Monetary Policy in Open Economies conference explored a range of topics, including an estimation of useful models in open economies and recent advances in quantitative models of flexible inflation targeting.    The Economics of Homelessness Is Varied, Complex Economics, particularly the cost and availability of housing and lack of employment, is a major reason why people become homeless. Substance abuse is another leading cause.