Economic Growth, Emerging Markets, the United Nations, the World Bank and all the rest…
The Health Metrics Network at the World Health Organization and other partnerships have to meet the needs of diverse constituents. If they do not, donors should spend their money elsewhere. The need for accurate and timely health information is undeniable, but who needs a partnership like ours?
We are situated with the WHO’s Information, Evidence and Research cluster, largely concerned with setting a variety of standards and norms.  As an apex organization, the Health Metrics Network aspires to intellectual leadership in the subject matter conferred by usage of the tools, standards and recommendations we produce, but also from knowing what is happening in the space, packaging it, communicating it to those that care and getting governments and donors to spend more on health information systems strengthening.
Bill Gates was in the house yesterday. He met with directors and higher ups in one of the auditoriums. To summarize, his comments were critical of the UN bureaucracy and reiterated the Gates Foundation’s commitment to research, technology and finding the next killer app for health. The Foundation attracts some criticism for this strategy. You got a better idea? Didn’t think so. Watching the West Coast try to reconcile itself with international development, NGOs, multilateral and bilateral donors is painful. What justifies the vast sums of money spent on secretariats, meetings, conferences, workshops and costly travel budgets? The flying around, the talking funny, etc. My boss from many years ago at Deloitte was of the same opinion when we spoke last week.
Here is a book that matters, Global Health Watch 2.
I was only going to read the Gates chapter, but I got sucked in. It is a well-written, fast paced, 350+ pager. They keep the pressure on the US, and that section gets a little gratuitous. The facts are thin in places and cherry-picked to back their arguments with some obfuscation. Any Ivy-league debater with a William F. Buckley t-shirt could go the other way just as effectively, but it is well-written. Then there are some generalities that come across as just attention-getting, but it is otherwise hard to get more than seven people outside the authors’ Facebook circles to read this stuff. The bottom line is that this is the ideal level of depth for the big arguments about the subject matter. The authors know that the US taxpayer would be happy to devote more money to international organizations if there was more transparency in their operations, costs and governance structures, and these were communicated effectively…… wait, I am not sure you’d want to do that….
.
.
… and you all know my review is better than the nice, softball from the shill who got hers in the Lancet. I guess the authors will cite her more often in their stuff.
Lousy photo from my Blackberry. 
Guess what he said in his address? What do you think he said about maternal and child health, the H1N1 virus, the interconnectedness of nations and humankind? Yup, he said all those things, but every time I hear it, there is the possibility for epiphany, for understanding of one of the “big issues,” maternal mortality for example. Sarah Brown followed BKM. She made maternal mortality sound like a supply chain issue: get enough of a few drugs to where they are needed to avoid avoidable deaths. I am sure this won’t completely solve the problem, but it would get us some movement towards this Millennium Development Goal. I have to dig out my old books from the American Production and Inventory Control Society.
I should call this post “how to run the Health Metrics Network” because that’s what I’m involved in everyday, and I don’t have the time to solve the problems of the Global Fund, Stop TB or any of the other partnerships at the WHO.
I make this post in the spirit of full disclosure. This is what I do every day. I take the number 8 bus to the WHO Secretariat every morning and try to make sure that $55 million in generous donations from the Gates Foundation and a few others for strengthening health information systems for low-resource countries result in something. The first step is convincing donors like USAID, DFID and the governments of rich countries that they might as well be flushing their aid and assistance funds down the toilet if they are funding health programs in poor countries without regard for health information systems. Many countries, poor and not so poor, do not have adequate information on cause of death, how often their people use healthcare facilities, and for what reasons. They also don’t know how much and which pharmaceuticals are being used, how many are available and how long it will take to get more, or even how many doctors and nurses they have. As a result, budgets for health expenditures are poorly planned and wasted. When donors open the wallet, they have difficulty knowing what’s going to have the most impact. After they have, the can’t tell what they’ve really achieved. Information-based policy and decision making are needed. Systems are needed. Anecdotal evidence, doing whatever Bono thinks is cool, or something that came out of what you saw in the film Blood Diamond are no way to base decisions to alleviate poverty. Information is.
I supervised USAID-funded consulting projects that worked with the West Africa Power and the West Africa Gas Pipeline. The goal was to get the power grid of West Africa interconnected, better performing and see markets for energy evolve. 
Power Privatization for Extremely Poor Countries 
It’s not the solution in many cases. As resigned as I am to the realities of capitalism, many of the poorest countries are not in a position to privatize their power assets. Frequently, these countries have higher per unit costs for electricity due to scale, landlocked locations or disbursed population centers. A small percentage of elites have access to power for which, through political influence, they obtain subsidized rates. Politicians are loathe to increase tariffs to levels that approach cost recovery. In such a situation, investment requires subsidies so that power networks can develop and fuel economic growth. The private sector will never invest in such a situation. I am bringing this up because there is a tendency for international organizations and G8 governments to act as though privatization can solve all of the governance and management issues around infrastructure in poor countries. This is too simplistic a solution. There are other avenues through which infrastructure in poor economies can be and should be addressed. If local investors can’t figure out how to make money running a utility, can foreign investor be expected to do better? 
Ghana, however, is not in this category. When I lived in Accra from 2004-2008, the city went through a period of more than a year without power. Even in Labone where the affluent and powerful lived, drastic power sector problems necessitated power cuts about 50% of the time. This was something to contemplate during the pageantry of the African Union meetings in 2007. The entourages of the African leaders composed of blacked out Mercedes sedans, 4X4s and police motorcycles streamed around the city at all hours, sirens and cherries on with security forces and pith-helmeted police at all major junctions.
Not much you can do when traffic is bad in Accra.
.
The issues were (and still are) Somalia and Darfur. The well-traversed United States of Africa concept was brought out. This concept is so far away from the reality of relations between African countries and the actions of most leadership, that it should be dismissed for at least another 20 years. Sub-Saharan countries are still in the process of nation building with large segments of the population (more importantly, elites) having little interest in the development of nations as embodied by the current borders, the concept of sharing of power, and the degree of collectivism that is needed to escape poverty. There are a variety of cultural, economic and other explanations. This was also a characteristic of the US and Europe prior to “unification,” but the development of systems that share national capital, make public expenditure (taxes) more transparent and useful, make leadership accountable, and generally allow people to have a say about how they are governed are deficient in almost all countries. When these aspects of Sub-Saharan governments grow stronger, the national governments will become more legitimate, and stronger nations will emerge. At that point, the United States of Africa could be viewed as possible.
An economic union in practice with economic characteristics of the EC would emerge first. Today, moving people, goods and money across borders is difficult, costly and done as infrequently as one must. Particularly in West Africa, economic systems are set up for linkages to sell commodities to international markets and import manufactured products (and services) from outside Africa. Trading between countries is inefficient. Small domestic markets, with the exception of that of Nigeria, are not large enough to encourage the levels of investment needed to build industries and create jobs. An example of this problem is that it is simply not legal to manufacture, grow or trade many kinds of goods in Ghana or Burkina Faso and sell them in Nigeria. Smuggling and corruption in Nigeria still permit outlawed goods to come in, but this is not helpful for Nigeria nor is the policy of forbidding imports from the region. Africans crossing land borders in West Africa are extorted in various kinds of ways despite the existence of treaties and protocols to which their countries are signators. The situation is still farther away from that which existed in Western Europe when preliminary steps were taken to establish the European Union.
The current situation requires a degree of political will to solve that is not yet present. In addition, to a more participatory approach to doing things. Absent this political will, the long-term viability of many African nations is in question, much less the establishment of a United States of Africa.
An American who lived in Niger for years opined as follows. “The idea of a United States of Africa is thought-provoking.  As technology and markets emerge, “government” and “nations” may find themselves becoming increasingly irrelevant outside of a protocol/military role. In Niger, and I would guess much of the Sahel, you basically have a 21st Century Feudal system with some hybrid Franco Colonial political system.  But once you get a few kilometers outside the capital, you better start learning the language of the local authorities.
The photo of some people who helped me in a market between Dosso and Dogon Doutchi in Southern Niger. 
I keep thinking of a story I heard once where Somalia had the fastest growing and one of the most efficient cell phone networks worldwide due to the lack of government regulation due to a lack of government.  I am not advocating for libertarian anarchy, but the construction of government structures/institutions needs to be re-thought.  Instead of organigrams and bureaucratic systems layered on top of each other operating in a mostly irrelevant/fictional reality, a decentralize system of nodes/networked model might be better suited for delivering goods and services to constituents.”