In Kyoto Hojicha started, but can buy various kinds of excellent tea, you drink a lot of places. 
That drinking tea is essential for the life of Japanese people. 
We are in a cup of tea every day as a matter of course, Kyoto is ingrained in the customs of Japan伝統RASHII these. 
The Kyoto is also famous as the place is the area of名産tea. 
Kyoto is a famous place for tea along with名産Kagoshima Prefecture and Shizuoka Prefecture. 
Speaking of Kyoto, Uji tea is so popular is that tea can be produced and many other brands. 
I Hojicha course not an exception. 
In Kyoto, a lot of tourists at home and abroad, and enjoy the sweet shop and tea, the tea house立CHI寄RERU feel free to start some things like specialty stores are selling a lot of some high-quality tea. 
Among such is the Hojicha to be able to enjoy relatively easily. 
Hojicha is affordable and reasonable prices compared to other high-quality tea is characterized by a fragrant smell強KUNAKU the habit. 
Also, for low and caffeine, which can be reassuring to the elderly to drink it from small children, is the most popular tea. 
In Kyoto, I have made many such Hojicha. 
However, Hojicha made in Kyoto, Hojicha and are widely sold in supermarkets and other general, the different taste and flavor one lid. 
It is a Hojicha from the Uji, Kyoto's most famous. 
The Uzi Hojicha "fragrance treasures" is a carefully selected Hojicha made the first flush tea. 
And you can drink this tea in Uji茶房headquarters and most famous Matcha parfait is very popular. 
Uji tea is high or the fragrant aroma GUDAKEDEMOSUGUNIWAKARUKURAI, relaxing tea. 
Uji tea known as a high-quality tea has a delicious, but the price is reasonable. 
However, one of the great points that can be bought relatively cheaply if Hojicha. 
Other very famous in the industry is based in Kyoto御茶屋offer in the Hojicha Yasushi Hazime茶舗hall. 
Here, not only can buy all the tea leaves, you can actually drink a cup of tea in a coffee space. 
Refined green tea and other tea-like and have tea, Hojicha as the price is reasonable of them all, as one of the very popular items in a very rich aroma. 
When I went to Kyoto, I think there is a good first GURIWOSHITEMIRUNOMO tea flavor.