The announcement from the ONITSUKATAIGA Ichiro produced sneakers, become so popular that it attracted a sold out immediately. 
ONITSUKATAIGA the topic of quality fashionable sneakers, brand is loved by the broader audience to enjoy the sport and young athletes to focus on trends. 
ONITSUKATAIGA, trademarks and changed its name to Asics, and continues to attract as many fans as a separate line. 
Its popularity has gained a high reputation not only in Europe, so many people have a favorite professional athlete. 
ONITSUKATAIGA that, in 2007, has launched a product in limited collaboration with the Japan Ichiro's major league. 
Ichiro by Ichiro Suzuki is Japan's leading baseball players to play in the Major League Seattle Mariners. 
Recently, a new WBC Ichiro is also active in memory, not only as a first-class baseball players, also known as a fashion icon. 
Ichiro, who produced the "Spark Run 07", was released only ONITSUKATAIGA 500 feet, and now vision items. 
Initially, the official website of Ichiro 460 feet of shops and ONITSUKATAIGA Roppongi Hills, and four stores in each limited to 10 feet, selling price is 15,100 yen, and I sold out in a matter of seconds. 
The current product is very difficult to obtain, and even be seen occasionally in the auction, in most cases it is trading at a price more than price. 
This sneaker is based on DS-5700 TAIGAPAU spike designed for the land, the model was designed by incorporating the image of freshness and sophistication Ichiro. 
The base color is white and is garnished with gold to symbolize the victory line. 
Also, the heel is "" and logo printed in gold leaf and made pictures. 
By the way, "07", the initials of the players Suzuki "," 2007 "07" in combination, can feel the sense of naming a unique選手RASHII Ichiro. 
In addition, a portion of the tongue of a shoe is Ichiro, the number of "51" and has been embroidered with red serial numbers are growing as the value of REAAITEMU. 
Ichiro選手RASHII in all, a unique dish that glow in the design. 
During this unique glow of a simple "run-Spark 07" is a fashion accents, they are also active as a second course and sports shoes.