Re-imagining Chinatown: An Interactive Planning Process 
James Rojas 
August 8 - September 5, 2009 
Re-imagining Chinatown Press Release 
James Rojas Statement 
James Rojas Bio 
On Saturday, August 8th, urban planner, James Rojas will unveil one of his interactive city models at Fifth Floor and invites the public to play and dream about the future of Chinatown.  The economic, social, and built environment of Chinatown is rapidly changing and the model will capture that energy through an interactive public participation process. 
The 4x8 ft. model of Chinatown includes Los Angeles State Historical Park (formerly known as the Cornfields) and portions of the LA River and will highlight the area’s topography, streets, and blocks. It is designed to inspire the minds of the participants through its grand interventions, vivid use of materials, colors, textures and by allowing the public to touch and imprint their vision on it. 
Fifth Floor will become an impromptu urban planning “store” with shelves lining the wall that will host an array of small, colorful buildings. Visitors can take these buildings off the shelves and place them on the model located in the middle of the gallery to create their ideal urban form. The model will constantly change as the work builds upon the contributions of others. 
This technique, conceived by Rojas, facilitates public participation in the urban planning process by using art as an interactive, creative medium to help people think about their community. The evolving exhibition mimics the dynamic and collective nature of life in Chinatown. These activities reflect how varied groups of players—strangers, neighbors, friends—interact to create a sense of place in Chinatown. 
Additional events, including opportunities for participants to create their own buildings, will be planned for the model's duration in the gallery and it will be on view during normal gallery hours. 
"Make no little Plans; they have no magic to stirs men's blood." 
-Daniel Burnham 
For inquiries please email: info@fifthfloorgallery.com