VisionBib.Com 
Computer Vision Information Pages
I received a suggestion about RSS feeds of bibliography updates. As long as 
the change could be automated, I decided it might work. So, I now have a
set of 
RSS feeds for recently added papers, 
divided by the same sections used in the contents page. 
The 
Facebook application for Conferences (e.g. CVPR) 
is working as expected with over 140 different users a month and over 400
total.
You get a Facebook notification on changes or approaching deadlines for the
conferences you express an interest in, and can see who else is interested
(at least those who allow public viewing of their name).
Since the Facebook programming experiment went fairly well (but Facebook
is constantly changing), I decided to explore Word Press and so there
is now another useless 
addition -- my blog. It will 
mostly have comments and news on additions and
changes to the Bibliography and Conference pages, but will include other
things I find of interest.
The annotated 
Computer Vision Bibliography
with indexes for Author, Journal/Conference, Keyword, Words in title, and
Authors by year was last modified on
Monday, July 27, 2009, 10:11 pm.
This bibliography, which has been an internet resource since 1994,
provides access to information on 102,000+ scientific papers
in the field of computer vision, image processing, character recognition and 
other related topics. 
(See the 
totals of authors, titles, and other references.)
This is the official mirror site for
the original
USC Iris Vision Bibliography, and contains
some enhancements. Several subsets of useful information have been extracted
into separate web sites. These are mentioned below.
If you know what you are looking for, you can try the 
"Jump directly to the index" option for 
Authors, words in title (KWIC), and Journals. 
The top level bibliography page has pointers for finding papers by
author (including author arranged by year to reduce your effort in creating
annual reports), conference or journal names, keywords, and a KWIC index.
The historical 
Rosenfeld Bibliography data 
is also available,
but it is incomplete (i.e. it ends in 1998)
and is the result of an automatic translation so there are errors.
General Resource Listing for Computer Vision
A more complete description of the following items can be found
in the 
Extended Computer Vision Resources Listing, which
provides more information on these various resource lists.
Research Groups in Computer Vision
If you want to find pointers to a particular research group, I have these
arranged somewhat geographically. Some companies are categorized
as vendors rather than research groups.
The Full Research Group Listing has all of the groups collected in
one place.
The Research People Listing collects people by the research institution.
(There may be multiple groups at one place.) This list may have many
missing due to the use of host names for determining where to list.
For other listings see:
Research Groups in the US
for Universities and corporate groups in the US.
Research Groups in the Americas.
lists research groups in the Americas other than the US
(especially Canada, but includes Mexico and south).
Research Groups in Europe .
lists research groups in Europe.
Research Groups in Asia, Australia, Oceania .
lists the rest of the world.
Vendors, Code and Datasets for Computer Vision Related Products
For some products I have assembled a list of vendors -- sometimes 
these overlap
research groups, sometimes not. 
This list has been extracted in a separate listing in
Vision Bibliography Vendor Listing.
Code is harder, but a number of implementations are
available. Many of these are spread throught the bibliography, and 
are collected in the
Vision Bibliography Code Lising.
Or see the discussion under:
Code Resource Section
Data is available in bits and pieces and in several
larger repositories,
The references I have available are best found in the 
Vision Bibliography Dataset Lising.
References made to "database" are generally for database systems or research.
Patents cover a number of large and small developments. Many
have related papers, others do not. 
The pointers to a very non-exhaustive list of
patents in this field can be found at:
Patent Discussion. This should only be the starting point for any
search. Use one of the several patent searches to find the ones that claim to 
do what you want, but probably do not solve your problem.
The Complete 
Conference Listing for Computer Vision and Image Analysis
lists current events with information on
future meetings, dates for paper submission, locations, websites,
and also contains archives of this information on past meetings.
Conference deadlines for about the next 3 months are also
available.
In Association with Amazon: 
You may also search this site -- either the conferences or the bibliography:
Stereo, Human and Computer
Stereo, the use of 2 or more images to provide three-dimensional information
or displays, has a long history. Stereo for sound (music) came much later.
I have assembled some stereo pairs, which can be viewed on the screen. Most of
these are scenery, but there are some with buildings. 
Yosemite
Why Yosemite? It is a place I enjoy. I have included some pictures
and pointers to the usual places, and some not so usual. Enjoy.
And the picture at the top, it is correct. This is not the usual view of Half
Dome from the Valley or Glacier Point, it is the view from Clouds Rest so
the half part of the dome is on the "wrong" side.
Sequoia-Kings Canyon
Sequoia and Kings Canyon are not quite Yosemite, but together they
have more to offer than just the trees (remember, they are
sequoias, not redwoods). 
I have included some pictures
and pointers to the usual places. Enjoy.
Grand Canyon
A lot of places claim to be the Grand Canyon of something-or-the-other, but 
there is only one Grand Canyon. Grand Canyon is timeless, yet provides a
record of time; changeless, yet is different by the hour. Other canyons may
be longer, deeper, wider, steeper, but none have all the qualities that
make this canyon Grand.
Los Angeles
A really interesing site about 
Architecture in Los Angeles, from someone who
spends vacations here. 
(The LA Times story of April 11, 2007
says it best.)
Are the billboards in Los Angeles getting you down? Last spring 
Christine Pelisek wrote an article in LA Weekly:
Billboards Gone Wild: 4,000 Illegal Billboards Choke L.A.'s Neighborhoods
which included 4 listings of billboards for 3 of the major companies in LA. 
These are available for browsing 
at 
my LA Billboard Information Site
(including maps showing locations) and adding 
new information. This resource should help understand how widespread the 
problem has become. Please add information on other locations and provide 
some of the missing information on those that are included.
Comments
For comments you can try:
The general Comments Form
But email usually works best, though I may be away from email for a week at a
time.
Keith Price
Contact
keith@visionbib.com
A lot of this has been derived from my work with the
Computer vision group at USC.
This file was last modified: 
Saturday, May 23, 2009, 1:00 AM