There's something very straight-forward about Google's branding. It doesn't complicate the experience with flowery user design or site mascots. It offers exactly the type of experience you'd expect to receive from a company that showcases its name in mostly primary colors. However, when Google announced today's additions to the "Google Services for Websites" suite, it took us a minute to remember what the company blog post was referencing. In a world where even browser names conjure images of animals or finely tuned cars, the company's simply named "Google Services for Websites" is extremely useful but often easy to forget. 
Sponsor 
In late March, Google launched AdSense, Custom Site Search and Webmaster Tools as the Google Services for Websites suite. The launch was meant to empower new web developers and increase the range of tools available to web masters and web hosts. 
And as of today, that service suite has increased with the addition of Web Elements, Page Speed and Tips for Hosters. 
Web Elements: This service allows users to modify, copy and paste snippets of code into their websites. This is particularly useful for nonprofit organizations and other groups who do not have a full-time dedicated webmaster. Rather than updating html fields for calendars, events and testimonials, site owners simply drop in a code snippet and the site automatically updates itself from tools like Google Calendar and Google Docs. As well, instead of having to update every testimonial emailed to the group, the organization can simply paste in a conversation element or comment bar titled "Testimonials".
Page Speed: Page Speed is an open-source Firefox / Firebug extension that helps web developers optimize site performance and reduce code redundancies. Similar to Yahoo's YSlow, the tool points out all your mistakes and helps you fix them. Think of it as constructive web parenting. 
Tips for Web Hosters: Tips for Web Hosters offers advice on account management, analytics, translation tools, server configurations and Ad Sense. If you're a large-scale web host and you'd like to take advantage of the "Google Services for Websites" program, apply here. 
Discuss