Feci, quod potui, faciant meliora potentes. 我は全力を尽くした。もっと上手くやれると思う者は勝手にやるが良い。
It is a far cry from his first 100 days in office when he soaked up press plaudits for broad-ranging reform of government and foreign policy. His second 100 days have seen harsh political realities intrude as he has become tied to the economic crisis and the fierce Republican-led backlash over healthcare. 
政府、外交政策の多岐にわたる改革へのマスコミの賞賛を一身に集めた、就任後100日間と状況は大きく異なってしまった。 
次の100日間は、経済危機と医療保険改革を巡る共和党率いる猛烈な反発に拘束され、厳しい政治的現実を目の前に迫ってきた。 
"It is the first time he has seemed to be weak," said Bowler. "He has started to seem like any other president. The shine has come off." 
「彼が弱々しく見えたのは初めてだ」とボウラーは言った。 
「彼も他の大統領と同じように見え始めた。輝きはなくなった」 
…日本では「黒ノム」と呼ばれているとかいないとか言われる彼、最初から「ちぇんじちぇんじ」って、キャバクラいったオヤジじゃあるまいし、それをバカの一つ覚えみたいに叫んでただけじゃないですか。 
負け院のオヤジさんもどうしようもなかったのは本当で、ご本人もそれを良く知っているようで、こんなリアクションを見せてくれたりしたわけですが。 
それでも、チェンジチェンジ音頭を踊りまくっておいて何を今更、としか言えないのですが？ 
あんなおやじさんしか候補出せなかった共和党だって良くないけど。 
ミンス・マスゴミ・コンボのチェンジ音頭に乗って踊るとどうなるか、自分の一票を腹いせなんて安い感情に憑りつかれて使おうという人は、よーく考えてみると良いですよ。 
Ironically, Obama's main problems lie with his own party and with his desire to reach consensus on the healthcare issue rather than to dictate a reform programme. He has insisted on Republican involvement in the drafting of new legislation. He has also paid heed to the "Blue Dog" group of Democratic politicians who represent conservative-leaning electorates and who have pushed aggressively for him to water down his healthcare proposals by, among other things, taking out the public option. 
皮肉にも、オバマの主な問題は自らの党内と、改革プログラムの実施を指示するのではなく、医療保険改革において総意を得たいという彼自身の願望にある。 
共和党が新法案の作成に関与しなければならない、と彼は強く主張してきた。 
また、保守主義寄りの有権者を代表し、その他様々なこととともにパブリック・オプションを排除して、医療保険改革を薄めるよう積極的に迫ってきた、民主党の「ブルー・ドッグ」グループにも耳を傾けてきた。 
At the same time, as anti-lobbying watchdog groups have pointed out, money has been flowing to the group's members from the healthcare industry in the form of campaign contributions. Blue Dog Democrats have collected more money than any other congressional grouping this year, with more than half the cash coming from healthcare businesses or the insurance and financial services sector. 
同時に、アンチ・ロビー活動監視団体が指摘しているように、同グループのメンバーには医療業界から、キャンペーン寄付金という形で資金が流入していた。 
ブルー・ドッグ・デモクラッツは今年、他のどの議会団体よりも多額の資金を集めており、その半分以上は医療、保険、金融サービス業界からのものだ。 
But perhaps the most surprising thing about the whole debate is that the appetite for health reform remains extremely popular with most Americans, even as Obama's poll numbers sink and the fight with Republicans and the healthcare industry grows uglier and uglier. One recent poll showed that 62% of Americans favoured a public option and 61% supported higher taxes on the wealthy in order to pay for it. 
しかし、この議論全体について最も驚くべきは、オバマの支持率が落ち込み、共和党やヘルスケア業界との闘いが益々醜さを増す中ですら、医療保険改革を実施しようという意欲が、大多数の米国人の間で非常に高いことだろう。 
最近行われた世論調査は、米国人の62%がパブリック・オプションを支持しており、61%がその財源獲得のために高所得者への増税を支持している、と示した。 
汗水たらして「報われない」低所得者なのか、フンダラフンダラして「自称」低所得者なのかが問題ですが…。 
今更だけど、これでも読んで復習しようか…。 
身体を張って色々と勉強させて下さった貴重な故ノムたんです。