When I started my blog in 2004, my goal was to blog about my research. It never happened.
You may think that I am afraid a reader could steal my ideas, or that I might worry about looking silly. But I have no such fear. However, I am afraid it could hurt the quality of my work. I need a sandbox for my research. The purpose of the sandbox is to protect my ideas from the pressure:
What scientists really need is more time and more freedom to play with their ideas without pressure to fit in, to publish, to make up their mind. (Backreaction)
Working without pressure on your own ideas is essential for science. By opening up too early on your research directions, you can face at least two problems:
You commit to ideas before you had a chance of fighting self-delusion. Psychologists will tell you that once you write down and explain a position, you tend to stick with it. It is irrational, but true. I claim that this effect is less significant if you sketch ideas in your own private sandbox.
Early on, your ideas are still fragile: an expert can destroy them by apparently reasonable criticism before you had a chance to root them into a solid framework.
In the early stage of my research, I am the best person to hold a critical view on my own work. Only later, when I have had the chance to explore the idea to my satisfaction, do I need the criticism of others.
This is not just a theory. Several years ago, I shared an idea with a prominent scientist. He generously replied—in details—about why my idea was wrong. As part of his argument, he made a specific assertion which, if true, made my work uninteresting. A year later, I finally revisited the idea, and I determined that he was wrong, in a self-serving way.
Silence and long hours alone in front of a desk are necessary for strong original ideas.
Further reading: The notion of disputation arenas by David Brin.
Keeping ideas private seems like a kludge forced by a a social problem.
In effect, you’re describing the brainstorming stage of idea creation. Experienced facilitators know that a successful brainstorm does not censor; Breakthroughs are often had when someone suggests an apparently silly avenue.
That self-serving professor is toxic for a research lab. It’s sad, most fields are full of people that don’t know to avoid in-depth criticism for new projects and ideas.
Comment by Daniel Haran — 1/8/2009 @ 11:34 
This post sounds more like rationalization than explanation. Sure, you may prefer to work alone and in silence. But your appeal to some psychological principles is a stretch.
Presumably, the same psychological principles would apply to me. But I always work in a noisy environment – I have the radio on, the TV on, maybe a YouTube video playing. And while working alone works for me in some cases – coding, for example, my genuinely _creative_ moments only occur when I’m in front of an audience of some sort trying to explain why I think the way I think.
What happens to me is the exact opposite of the principles you describe: I am more inclined to stick to a position _until_ I have to write it down, present it, or explain it. And my ideas are their strongest early on, and the criticism of experts is more likely to be placed on ‘hold’ until I’ve had the chance to work through the idea in detail.
Comment by Stephen Downes — 1/8/2009 @ 14:58 
@Haran
It is not an immediate colleague who cause this delay in my research project. It is someone from a different school.
Comment by Daniel Lemire — 1/8/2009 @ 18:57 
@Downes
This post sounds more like rationalization than explanation.
Granted.
my genuinely _creative_ moments only occur when I’m in front of an audience of some sort trying to explain why I think the way I think
I submit to you that this is hardly typical in science.
Comment by Daniel Lemire — 1/8/2009 @ 19:04 
Hi Daniel,
I agree with you, it was the same with me. Commenters asked repeatedly why I don’t write about my own research, or if I do, it’s a summary of a paper I just put out. The reason is as you say. If I’m still thinking about something, I don’t want to commit to it before I’ve made up my mind. And if I’ve made up my mind, I’ll publish it. 
That is not to say I don’t talk to anybody. I talk to colleagues or friends of whom I know they are supportive rather than disruptive to my thought processes. It just isn’t a public process, and the last thing I want is “feedback” from anonymous guys on my blog.
And thanks for the link 
Best,
B.
Comment by Bee — 1/8/2009 @ 19:29