Aug 6th 2009 From The Economist print editionThe gap between banks and the real economy continues to perplex
ERIC DANIELS, the chief executive who nearly a year ago pitched his perfectly good bank, Lloyds TSB, into a shotgun marriage with a really bad one, HBOS, unveiled big losses for the first half of this year on August 5th. They totalled £4 billion for the newly combined Lloyds Banking Group, with provisions of £13 billion for dubious debts. But there is some comfort in the notion that the problem is at least contained, supported by the government’s 43% stake in the group.
More help for the bank is in theory coming from the new asset-protection scheme: the state will underwrite 90% of further losses on around £230 billion of the worst assets after Lloyds has borne the first 10%. Five months after the scheme was first announced, its details are still being thrashed out with Lloyds and another candidate, Royal Bank of Scotland. RBS, which is 70% government-owned, is expected by analysts to report losses on August 7th of at least £2 billion, with bad-debt provisions of around £7 billion.
Mr Daniels, unrepentant about his rash merger, nevertheless seems eager to get back to the good old-fashioned prudence that made Lloyds TSB dull but successful. Some £200 billion of assets will be run off in the next five years. The European Commission has given warning that the group’s share of the mortgage and deposit markets, 27% and 24% respectively, may be an uncompetitive by-product of state aid. It could make the bank shed more business.
The banking industry as a whole is looking a bit less volatile, though Northern Rock, bailed out in 2007, reported a loss of £724m for the first half, up from £585m a year earlier. Three other banks, however—Barclays, HSBC and Standard Chartered—had surging profits, though these were mostly earned abroad or in global markets.
That leaves the government pondering just what the link is these days between banks and the real economy. The Bank of England has spent £125 billion since March on quantitative easing (pumping money into the system by buying gilts and a few other securities) but has seen little change in either the yield on government debt or bank loans to non-financial firms. Figures published on August 4th show that lending to manufacturers actually shrank in the three months to June for the fourth quarter running, as it did to the wholesale and retail trade. The only real growth was in banks’ loans to bank-holding companies (ie, themselves), and in home loans.
Individual bank balance-sheets tell the same story. Loans to British manufacturers shrank by well over £2 billion at both Barclays and Lloyds during the first half of the year. Other sectors did not fare much better. Barclays and HSBC increased their British mortgage books by £6.0 billion and £6.7 billion, respectively, but Northern Rock, which in February pledged to add £14 billion of home loans over two years, had lent less than a tenth of that by July.
A big chunk of Barclays’ and HSBC’s profits came from trading, mainly in foreign exchange, commodities and interest-rate instruments (see chart). They made them, moreover, while taking more risks. The earnings are bound to please shareholders, and it may also please the government to see the country’s biggest banks adding capital and reserves. But how sustainable these profits are is not clear.
The need to find big profits somewhere may hasten a new rush into risky lending in the British market. No British bank is making much money there at the moment. The British business of Banco Santander of Spain, with profits up 41% on the first half of 2008, is doing well, but HSBC’s profits in Britain halved and Barclays’ British retail and commercial banking profits also fell. Although there are some signs that the recession is bottoming out, corporate defaults are expected to increase.
Against this background, the decision of the Bank of England’s monetary-policy committee on August 6th to extend quantitative easing by another £50 billion is a sign that it is not persuaded by tentative signs of economic recovery. But just pumping in more money may be a waste of time. 
Back to top ^^