Source route options LSRR, SSRR 
Normally IP routing is dynamic with each router making
decisions about which next hop router to send the
packet to. However, another option exists where the
sender can choose the route. In the case of the Loose
Source Route, the sender (host) can specify a list of
routers the packet must traverse, but it may also pass
through other routers between any two addresses in the
list. The Strict Source Route works very much the same
way, except the packet must traverse only through the
specified addresses. Source routing can potentially be
used to reach hosts behind the firewall even if these
hosts use private IP addresses which normally are not
reachable over the Internet.
Record route option RR
This option causes every router that handles the
packet on the way to add its IP address to a list in
the options field. This option is used by the ping
utility when it is called with the "-R" command line
switch; it can potentially be exploited to discover
the internal network addressing and layout behind the
firewall. Although the risk is low, some firewall
administrators prefer to block packets with this
option set.
Timestamp option
This option tells routers that handle the packet to
record their timestamps and sometimes addresses (like
in the case of the record route option). This option
is seldom used, but can potentially be exploited to
gather information about the protected network, so
some firewall administrators prefer to block packets
with this option set.
Fragment options
IP packets may sometimes become fragmented. This
happens if the original datagram is larger than what a
physical network layer can transmit. The IP packet
header has special fields (called "Flags" and
"Fragmentation Offset") that detect fragmented packets
and help reassemble them. Many firewalls can check
these bits as well. Certain combinations of ﬂags and
fragmentation offsets can never happen during a normal
operation but were seen to be used by
attackers. Firewall Builder provides two options for
most commonly used cases related to packet
fragmentation: the ’all fragments’ option matches the
second and further fragments, while the ’short’ option
is used to match packets that are too short to contain
even a complete IP header.
Standard IP Service objects that come with Firewall
Builder appear in the Standard objects library, in
the Services/IP branch.
Support for TOS and DSCP
Some firewalls can match IP packets based on the TOS
("Type Of Service") or DSCP ("Differentiated Services
Code Point") bits setting. These bits are used to
define "quality of service". Since TOS and DSCP use
the same byte in the IP header, these two are mutually
exclusive. The dialog for the IP service uses radio
buttons to choose between TOS and DSCP and provides an
entry field for the actual code. The code is usually
either a hexadecimal number or a class code such as
"BE", "EF", "AFxx" or "CSx" that will be used verbatim
in the generated firewall configuration.
Using IP service objects in policy rules
Consider the following IP Service objects:
Object EF has DSCP matching turned on, matching
traffic class EF. Object TOS 0x10 matches
packets with TOS bits set to 0x10 (low delay).
Object all_fragments has flag "all fragments"
turned on, and finally object
lsrr matches "loose source routing"
option. Here is what we get for iptables when we use
these objects in policy rules as follows: