At 21.5 percent, Japan has the highest proportion of its population over age 65 of any country in the world. It also has one of the world’s lowest birth rates, leading to an expectation that Japan’s population will shrink from its current 127 million to 89 million by 2055. This demographic shift is likely to have a variety of domestic consequences, including a decline in economic growth, lower savings rates, increased healthcare spending, and a strain on government budgets and pension funds. Furthermore, these effects could reverberate well beyond Japan’s borders, posing challenges to Japan’s long-time ally, the US. Increased healthcare spending could come at the expense of spending on security, threatening US interests in the region. Japan’s savings have financed US consumption for decades, as Japan was, until recently, the world’s largest holder of US Treasury bonds. Hence, a decline in the savings rate could pose a new challenge to the US economy. However, a weakened Japan could also open opportunities for greater integration and multilateralism in Asia. Ultimately, the US and Japan will have to work as closely as ever to ensure that both countries make the best of Japan’s senescence. – YaleGlobal
Japan's relationship with the United States over the past half-century 
has been one of remarkable resilience, even through the end of the Cold 
War and the emergence of new security threats in Northeast Asia. During 
his February meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso, U.S. 
President Barack Obama emphasized the importance of the alliance by 
declaring it "the cornerstone of security in East Asia." But a change is 
occurring in Japan that could rock the foundation of this happy 
partnership, something far more dangerous for the United States than the 
prospect of an opposition victory in the upcoming general election: 
Japan is getting old.
In fact, Japan is the grayest country in the world, with 21.5 percent of 
its population 65 or over. Not only is the Japanese population aging, 
it's also shrinking, from 127 million today to a projected 89 million by 
2055, the result of a plunging fertility rate. This unfortunate 
combination is causing the country to lose its edge and dynamism. Older 
workers are less innovative; older, more "mature" markets attract less 
investment. Older populations live off savings, rather than generating 
new capital. And, as the number of working-age citizens diminishes, 
pension funds will be exhausted and tax revenues and government budgets 
will be squeezed.
The demographic transformation will in effect become a guillotine, 
cutting off policy options as Japan tries to deal with the needs of an 
elderly population. For example, Japan will be more likely to prioritize 
healthcare than international security. Older societies are typically 
more risk-averse, and Japanese -- "reluctant realists" at the best of 
times -- will be increasingly unwilling to put their most precious 
resource, their young, in harm's way.
This shift poses serious questions for the United States and its 
increasingly important relationship with Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance 
has moved steadily forward over the last decade, with Japan assuming a 
higher profile when it comes to regional security. But we have probably 
seen the high-water mark of Japan's international security activities. 
Even though the region is increasingly tense, Japanese defense budgets 
have actually declined in recent years (and Japan continues to cap 
defense spending at 1 percent of GDP) -- a fact that could put U.S. 
interests in Asia at risk.
Financially, too, considering that Japan's savings has bankrolled much 
of U.S. spending in recent decades, the country's increasingly elderly 
population is going to hit the American empire where it hurts. U.S. 
trade negotiators have long targeted Japan's trade surplus with the 
United States, but those funds have been recycled back to America to 
suppress the value of the yen, finance consumption of Japanese-made 
goods (and support employment), and help the United States cover its 
steadily expanding government deficits. Until late 2008, Japan was the 
number one holder of U.S. Treasury bills. (China has overtaken Japan, 
but as of February 2009, Japan still held $662 billion in T-bills, 
putting it just behind China.)
An aging Japan will no longer be able to recycle those surpluses. More 
precisely, an aging Japan won't have those surpluses: Its trade accounts 
will fall into deficit, and funds that do exist will be badly needed at 
home. This process is already underway as the country's savings rate 
declines. According to estimates by the consulting firm McKinsey, the 
total savings rate in Japan is projected to slide to 0.2 percent by 2024.
Unfortunately, Japan is merely the leading edge of a demographic tsunami 
in Northeast Asia. Aging, the rise of a middle class, and the desire to 
stimulate domestic demand more generally will transform trans-Pacific 
balances.
As Japan grapples with its demographic transformation, China and South 
Korea will look to fill the gap. (In fact, both countries also face 
demographic trajectories similar to Japan's, but they have more 
effective options to deal with this shift. China can lift its one-child 
policy or draw on its considerable diaspora; Korea has opened the door 
to foreign brides and there is always the prospect of an influx of youth 
from unification.) Japan has purchased considerable influence in the 
region by virtue of its foreign investment, but those days are over, and 
it's still unclear what the balance of power will look like in the 
future.
In any event, however, there are some ways for Japan -- and the United 
States -- to make the most of its aging problem. To begin, Japan must 
embrace the prospects for diplomatic progress that its "golden years" 
could bring. As Japan's population grows older, fears of the country's 
remilitarization will diminish, which should create a thaw that could 
facilitate deeper integration within Asia and the forging of a 
Tokyo-Beijing axis, similar to France and Germany's in the European 
Union. Japan's weakening could actually be a positive force in the 
region: A country with diminished resources is more inclined to reach 
out to other nations for help in dealing with shared problems. (Of 
course, this will require some far-sighted diplomacy by Seoul and 
Beijing; they could just as easily be tempted to settle old scores and 
grievances with a weakened Japan.) 
The United States has a lot to do as well. To start with, Washington 
needs to develop a new paradigm for its alliance with Japan. Japan 
remains a rich country, with much to contribute -- if it chooses to do 
so. So Washington must encourage Japan to keep an eye on the horizon and 
shoulder some clearly defined international responsibilities, while it 
still has the capacity. Quid pro quos are out: Both countries should 
think in terms of public goods that serve regional and larger interests. 
That could mean the provision of human capital throughout the region to 
institutionalize good governance or sustainable development, or 
reinvigorated diplomacy on economic or trade issues. Similarly, the 
alliance must diversify and focus less on military issues and more on 
security broadly defined, whether this is fighting disease, protecting 
critical infrastructure, or stemming the spread of weapons of mass 
destruction, to name but three areas where Japan can make significant 
contributions.
Together, the United States and Japan need to promote the development 
and strengthening of regional institutions. There is a tendency in both 
countries to see East Asian integration as a threat or challenge to U.S. 
relations with Asia and ties to Japan. That too is short-sighted. 
Multilateralism and bilateralism should not be seen as exclusive 
options. More effective multilateralism will deepen ties among nations, 
contribute to regional stability, and facilitate problem-solving. The 
process should begin now, while Japan still has more leverage and 
influence over the development of institutions and norms.
Of course, keeping Asia on track as Japan heads into this demographic 
decline will be a difficult task. The combination of a rising China, a 
shrinking Japan, and a more coherent Asia will fundamentally alter the 
dynamics of U.S. engagement with Japan. Tokyo will continue to be 
America's ally and partner even as the country ages and its interests 
evolve -- but only if both countries begin planning for that future 
today.
Tomoko Tsunoda is a former Vasey fellow at Pacific Forum CSIS, a Honolulu-based think tank where Brad Glosserman is executive director. This comment draws on their study, "The Guillotine: Japan's Demographic Transformation and its Security Implications." 
Source: 
Foreign Policy 
Rights: ©2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive, LLC. All rights reserved. 
Related Articles: 
China's Rise in Southeast Asia: Implications for Japan and the United States 
Rising Dragon and the American Eagle – Part II 
Japan to Join U.S. Policy on Taiwan 
China-Japan: Cautious Steps Across the Divide