On my searching about OSX on virtualization, I find some interesting tutorial on pcwizxomputer.com. And base on that I manage sucessfully to install and running iAtkos v5i on VMWare Player 2.5.1 and VMWare Workstation 6.5.1.
Here is my stories : 
My Host Machine is acer aspire 4920G with 2G rams, running Ubuntu 8.10 x86_64 with the latest upgrade. 
Virtualization application that I used is VMWare Player 2.5.1. 
(note: I found a windows software to configure VMware VMX configuration file and VMDK disk image, you can google it for key VMX Builder)
The VMware configuration is: 
1. Virtual Disk should be IDE type, and minimal 8 GB. 
2. OS type selection is "other" and the version is "FreeBSD64" 
3. Ethernet mode is bridge (I tried NAT mode but I can't make it running) and make sure that the bridged ethernet on the host is the active link. 
4. I use the iso disk images as the source of CD / DVD.
OSX Custom Install: 
SMBIOS28, Kernel 9.2.0 TOH and Intel Ethernet driver
So you can power on the virtual machine. 
On StartUp Boot Message press "F8", and boot prompt should come up.
If the virtual machine is working, you should see boot sequence some message on the screen.
finally the "welcome message screen for iAtkos v5i" should come up
select utilities->disk util, erase and setup the disk, I set single partition (just select erase tab and set the Volume name, and click "erase" 
you will see the volumes and you can quit disk util.
click continue and select the destination volume, continue and than click "customize", select the customisation of this installation as state on the top.
and the click install
the installation progress should come up 
on my machine it's take about 30 minutes, and the machine should restart automaticaly on the end of installation. 
after restarted if you press "F8" on the boot up message you will see
if you set "-v -f" you will see some boot up sequence, and this is good to see if some thing wrong happen.
if not you wll see 
after a while on my machine it's about 10 minutes (but next boot up sequence is only take 3 minutes), if there is no error, the "Welcome Message Screen" is up
and you can start with customisation of your OSX ..... and the end your Desktop will come up.
If you have Ethernet connected to internet you can start the Ethernet assistant to setup the ethernet automatically. 
(Your LAN/WLAN on the host machine should connected to dhcp server).
DONE!!! 
my vmx/vmdkOriginal post blogged on b2evolution.