The Hannover Consultancy develops sustainability solutions that drive operational, cost and carbon efficiency. Innovative Hannover products to embed sustainability include CarbonMixer® and The Hannover Index.We work with organisations and brands to create, optimise and implement strategies for more effective sustainable business that is environmentally and socially responsible
We focus on carbon, energy, climate change and responsible business, providing clients with bespoke sustainability consultancy and solutions.
Bringing together the distinct but complementary service areas of Technical Sustainability, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Communications, we enable our clients to respond to the challenges of financial, social and environmental performance - the three pillars of sustainable growth.
We are an accredited Planet Positive consultancy. Planet Positive is the world’s first environmental mark. It’s a new and accelerating global standard that has been adopted by leading green brands and businesses. Take Marks & Spencer, Centrica and Sainsbury. They have all had parts of their operations, products and services measured and accredited. Organisations and brands that are Planet Positive have demonstrably measured and reduced their carbon footprint, and also invested in carbon-reducing projects, to minimise their environmental impact.
Our three core services are:
Technical Sustainability
Cost-effective solutions to tackle carbon, energy, transport, packaging and materials use through design and operations.
Renewable energy design and built environment services.
Corporate Responsibility
Advising on and formulating sustainability strategy, policy and programmes.
Developing and embedding sustainability into businesses and brands.
Sustainable Communications
Creating and implementing PR and CSR-based initiatives, programmes and projects to influence and inspire external audiences.
Embedding and communicating change by measuring employee engagement and delivering campaigns.