It may be that the image of luxury and refined green tea, and recently has been able to easily buy and sell. 
Refined green tea is a tea that can be specifically chosen to pick the tea leaves in the original, high quality tea and a lot of flavor with less of the amino acid composition of the group with a very astringent tannin than tea. 
However, we have refined green tea can be bought cheaply by advances in technology and large-scale cultivation. 
The use of online shopping in particular is very useful for me to bring home so easily. 
When you visit a shopping site, and really find the kinds of tea. 
There is a need to watch all sorts of prices but also by its quality. 
Refined green tea products especially to note that wind. 
I think this is being sold at cheaper prices than other major, that have similar flavor, but it is not real. 
Depending on the quality of refined green tea in general if, 100g for 1500 yen in sales to more than is normal. 
Despite the price for refined green tea boasts that about 300 yen in sales, only that it not only reasonable but what you know. 
I think that tea is a taste from the good taste. 
For example, 1000 or who is fond of the yen in 3000 never to be funny or have a yen for something like that. 
I think a good price even higher, in particular, I think the idea is so wrong with a glass of wine. 
Tea can also change the taste by the way is open淹. 
And also called in to tea and tea is said to have been very important to the temperature of the water, they would have put the tea in boiling water without thinking, but is more astringent taste HIKIDASA. 
Some people may prefer that these bitter tea, typically from 60 ℃ to 80 ℃ in water and heated, they say, and plenty of steam boiled over time It is said that good. 
In the case of refined green tea and high tea is especially good as it was淹the heat, some people have been introduced in these淹and shopping site. 
As to the type and description of these and also the history of tea, tea of the site that I have carefully is often a good quality to it, you may want to choose to measure. 
The tea was delicious and well淹is said to have a faintly sweet. 
While in the beginning but may be difficult, there is a very in-depth as a tea and green tea, many people are interested and I will try the method.