Source: Google 21:31
Toccami tutta...
Lo studio di design russo Art Lebedev, balzato agli onori delle cronache per la tastiera Optimus Maximus (questa QUI, con gli schermini OLED inseriti in ogni tasto), torna a far parlare di sè per un altro design concept, ...
Art Lebedev. Soy fan.
Desde hace ya meses (¿o años?) que cierta compañía presentó el prototipo de un teclado con una pantalla en cada tecla me enganché de las piezas que diseña este buró moscovita. Sus piezas de diseño; gráfico pero sobre todo industrial son ...
folderix flash drive
o escritório de design art lebedev studio é simplesmente, pra mim, um dos melhores do mundo. é um dos poucos que consegue transformar a simplicidade em coisas fantásticas. um exemplo disso é o flash-drive folderix. ...
here's the coolest design web ever...
for all readers,. i'd like to recommend u guys about another aspects of product design. well, about pop art culture , i really admire a japanese artist,Takashi Murakami. but about the product designer, let give him a big hand to his ...
Let’s Live In Colour !
We live in times when the technology pushes further and further, sometimes forcing us to not even stop and enjoy what is beeing offered by that technology. Fortunatelly, some of us actually take time and discover the beauty behind the ...
an ideal present
if you need a present for easter, christmas, … (fill in the events the market tells us to buy for).. here is an ideal present for family and friends. gadget everyone needs1. the idea underlying the well-known limerick ...
Art. Lebedev Studio Industrial Design
http://www.artlebedev.com/everything/id/. 相关日志. 2006 Top10 最值得把玩在手的创意产品 (0); 产品设计:新世代手机Onyx (1); 产品设计Xbox360 (0); flash特效站:flashden.net (0); 插画站:jasonchanart.com (1)
from russia with love: cool design
if you are looking for creative design one place you should put in your list is without any doubt, russia. like most "under development" countries, they seem to be one of those places where creativity seems to be always present, ...
Art Lebedev
Art Levedev é mais uma daquelas empresas que vendem produtos... hmmm... criativos. Na verdade não se trata apenas de uma "empresa", mas de um "estúdio de desenho industrial". Brincadeiras à parte, o estúdio aplica conceitos muito bons ...
matrioska geek
matrioska: muñecas tradicionales rusas cuya originalidad consiste en que se encuentran huecas por dentro de tal manera que en su interior albergan una nueva muñeca y ésta a su vez a otra y ésta a su vez otra. ...
close