Bigger, bolder and more spectacular than ever! Are you ready for the most sensational Eminence concert to date? The 'A Night in Fantasia' concert series has been recognised around the world as the most popular brand of video game / anime concerts, so you will be pleased to hear that The Eminence Symphony Orchestra is warming up to present 'A Night in Fantasia 2009' at the Sydney Entertainment Centre on Saturday 26 September, 2009. Featuring a full Symphony Orchestra, a mind blowing choir, special guest performers and boasting a score of popular tracks from the worlds of video games and anime, 'A Night in Fantasia 2009' is being billed as the biggest, boldest and best concert in the 'A Night in Fantasia' series to ever be held.  A Night in Fantasia 2009 will feature a host of special guest stars who will fly in from the USA and Japan specially to be involved in this epic event. "We are really looking forward to presenting A Night in Fantasia 2009 as it's going to be such a huge event, featuring so many wonderful pieces of music, musicians, world class composers and other special guests," commented Hiroaki Yura, Founder and Director of Eminence Artists. The concert will feature a score of arrangements - many of them as originally done by the composers - spanning the games and anime genres, with a focus on western music not before seen in the 'A Night in Fantasia' series. The score of tracks to be performed include AFRIKA, Ace Combat V, Darksiders: Wrath of War, Dragon Age: Origins, Metal Gear Solid, Prince of Persia, Red Alert 3, Shadow of the Colossus and a wide range of anime titles, including Astro Boy (which will hit cinemas in September), Studio Ghibli, Totoro, Laputa, Princess Mononoke, Death Note, Steamboy and many, many more .... "Not only will fans be blown away by the musical extravaganza of A Night in Fantasia 2009, they will also love the impressive array of images that will be shown on the big screen. We're not holding back," Mr. Yura added.
Tickets on sale at Ticketmaster. Date: Saturday 26 September, 2009 Time(s): 6.00pm (doors open at 5.00pm) Venue: Sydney Entertainment Centre