Supercritical fluids used to create 3 nanometer wiring
Using supercritical fluids, researchers in the UK deposited 3nm copper wiring by infiltrating the fluid into porous SiO2. While commercial deployment depends on next-generation patterning methods, the process is highly extensible and scalable, making it a prime candidate for future device fabrication.
Miniaturization in semiconductor fabrication continues along the tracks laid down by Moore's Law, but for how long? Currently, top-end processors (Intel's Core i7, AMD's Shanghai, etc.) use 45 nm fabrication processes, and most technology roadmaps show 32 and 22 nm devices being brought to market within the next few years. The looming questions behind miniaturization are how long can it go on and what technologies must be developed for it to continue? In this week's PNAS, scientists from the Universities of Nottingham and Southampton demonstrate a technique that allows the electrodeposition of 3nm copper lines that may help continue the rush to tiny features.
Electrodeposition is a common (and remarkably flexible) process, one where thin metal layers are deposited on conducting surfaces. Ions of metal atoms, usually from salt solutions, are driven onto a plating surface using an applied voltages. Just about any shape can be electroplated using an impressively wide array of metals—the process is used for everything from shiny license plate holders to cell phone housings and the copper interconnects on integrated circuits. 
There are two things that limit the size of electrodeposited features. The first is that you still need a mask area to block off areas where metal should not be deposited. The second is that the vast majority of electrodeposition occurs in polar solvents like water, ethanol, and acetonitrile. These liquids are unsuitable for nanoscale (< 10nm) deposition because surface tension prevents them from filling the tiny features of these nanopatterns. Unlike these familiar liquids, supercritical fluids have no surface tension. They're created by combining high pressure and temperature to bring a substance to the point (called the critical point) where the line between liquid and gas disappears. A material above its critical point acts as a dense fluid, one with remarkably high solubility and mass transport. Importantly, a supercritical fluid's physical properties can be tailored by adjusting temperature and pressure. In this new work, supercritical CO2 was mixed with polar solvents like difluoromethane (CH2F2) to form single-phase supercritical fluids that could dissolve copper, silver, and cobalt organnometallic complexes. The resulting supercritical fluids were relatively conductive (1 mS/cm) and conducive to electrodeposition.
At first, the authors used it for large scale, 1cm2, copper thin films. Crystallite size and morphology could be continuously adjusted by varying deposition voltage, and the film's resistivity was similar to conventionally electrodeposited copper. To form nanowires, mesorporous SiO2 templates were placed over indium tin oxide (ITO) electrodes (these have a variable pore size from a few nanometers to a few hundred nanometers). Supercritical CO2 with acetonitrile and organometallic copper was able to infiltrate pores in the SiO2 with an average diameter of 10 nanometers, and wound up electroplated onto the ITO surface. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed the presence of copper wires with sizes ranging from 3-10nm. Critically, however, the authors didn't report on the electrical characteristics of the nanowires. Cobalt and silver films were also deposited to demonstrate the flexibility of the process.
The outlook for this technology is a mixed bag. The process as demonstrated is highly extensible, as it was used for items ranging from large-scale coatings to truly nanoscale wires. The range of materials it will work with is limited only by chemists' ability to form viable organometallic complexes and single-phase supercritical fluids. Further flexibility may be gained by adjusting the supercritical fluid's properties with temperature and pressure. Finally, supercritical fluids' ability to infiltrate structures < 10nm in diameter makes it ideally suited to nanoscale fabrication. Electrodeposition is already in use in production environments and moving to supercritical electrolytes should not be a significant hurdle considering successful scale-up of other supercritical fluid technologies. So, there's a lot to like here.
However, putting the process to use for finer chip features is wholly dependent on other templating technologies, which are needed to make the masks for nanoscale structures and devices. While a variety of novel schemes are in development, scalable nanostructuring below 10nm should probably not be expected in the next five to ten years. Even if we can make electronics at this scale, other miniaturization concerns, like tunneling and crosstalk between closely spaced wires, are not addressed by this process. In this sense, the electrodeposition technology demonstrated here is comparable to other nanowire technologies, like liquid-solid-vapor growth of semiconductors—very promising, but waiting for patterning technologies before any of them are viable in commercial devices.
PNAS DOI:10.1073/pnas.0901986106