Spanish, French and German most common class offerings in NWI
Story
Discussion
Image (2)
Carmen McCollum - carmen.mccollum@nwi.com, (219) 662-5337 | Posted: Tuesday, August 11, 2009 12:00 am | Loading…
Font Size:
Default font size
Larger font size
JOHN LUKE | THE TIMES Senior Blake Zlofo, center, talks to elementary school students about Roman banquet etiquette Friday during the final day of a weeklong Latin summer camp at Crown Point High School. The high school's foreign language students teach during the annual camp.
It's not enough just to be able to speak English.
Learning a foreign language or two broadens global understanding
and might be one of the keys to getting a job.
"Most of the world speaks multiple languages," said Martha
Nyikos, associate professor and immediate past chair of the
Language Education Department at Indiana University in
Bloomington.
"Americans are rather monolingual and monocultural," she said.
"Many people grow up speaking more than one language. Many of the
students whom I teach at Indiana University come here speaking
English as their third or fourth language."
Schools should begin offering languages as soon as possible,
Nyikos said, and offer them continuously from elementary through
high school.
"Sometimes what happens is when a new language is offered at a
school, the option, because of budgetary constraints, is to drop
another language where the enrollment is down or the teacher is
retiring," she said.
The challenge for schools is maintaining language programs while
simultaneously seeking to improve math and science scores, said
Steve Ackley, spokesman for the Virginia-based American Council on
the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
Still, research shows learning a foreign language improves the
cognitive abilities needed to learn other subjects like math and
history, Ackley said.
The most popular languages remain French, Spanish and German,
but their dominance is slowly decreasing in the face of growing
interest in Arabic, Chinese and Korean, according to a survey
conducted by the New York-based Modern Language Association.
"We know that learning another language gives us a privileged
access to other cultures," said Rosemary Feal, the association's
executive director. "Learning another language makes us better able
to function in a world where borders have been erased and the world
is shrinking, from an economic and political point of view, and
(it) helps us to function more effectively in a changed world."
In Northwest Indiana, Bishop Noll Institute in Hammond and
Portage High School had been among the few schools offering
Chinese.
However, Portage's teacher retired in June, and the district has
been unable to find a replacement, said guidance counselor Jennifer
Symer. Today, the district offers French, German, Latin and
Spanish.
Bishop Noll Principal Colleen McCoy-Ceja said Chinese is
important because it's a global language, and students interested
in business do well to take Chinese.
Dawn Greene, assistant superintendent for the School City of
East Chicago, said there are a smattering of languages spoken in
the district schools and at student homes, but Spanish and English
are the predominant languages.
"We try and make sure we send out dual language letters home to
our parents," she said.
David Rosenbaum, head of the foreign language department at
Crown Point High School, said the school offers five foreign
languages including 33 sections of Spanish, 12 sections of German
and six sections of Japanese.
"On a very practical note if you're planning to attend college,
almost every university will require a foreign language before you
can graduate. If you have some proficiency, you can test out,
saving time and money," Rosenbaum said.
"Even for those students who aren't going to university, there
are many businesses in which a foreign language is a beneficial
thing to have. It's another business tool when dealing with
customers or suppliers."
He said Crown Point doesn't begin offering a foreign language
until ninth grade, and he'd really like to see that changed.
"The earlier you begin a foreign language, the better your
retention and the better your accent," he said.
To see the languages spoken in your community, visit the Modern
Language Association Web site, at mla.org. At the bottom of the Web
page, there is a language map data center where you can plug in
your state, county, city or zip code to view the languages spoken
in your own community.