The economic indicators calendar includes Central Bank Interest Rate decisions, Inflation Indicators (CPI, PPI), GDP Growth, Unemployment rate, Non Farm payrolls, Balance of Trade, Current Account, Industrial Production, Business Sentiment, Housing Indicators, Retail Sales, Crude Oil Inventories, etc.
What to Expect This Week 
Published:
8/9/2009 9:20:58 PM
By: 
Anna Fedec, contact@tradingeconomics.com  
This week, the United States Federal Reserve holds a meeting on monetary policy. The Fed is expected to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged. However, it will be more interesting to see if Ben Bernanke and its peers disclose any exit strategy for quantitative easing. 
This week, we will also have the release of trade data for June with trade deficit perhaps falling to the lowest level since 1999. In addition, a CPI report is likely to show that inflation may have declined in July because of lower energy prices.  In the Euro Area, the ongoing contraction in GDP probably continued in Q2 but at a much slower pace than in the previous two quarters. In Japan, the Bank of Japan will meet to decide on rates but we don’t expect any changes in the current monetary policy. In the United Kingdom, unemployment rate may have hit 7.8% in July. Yet, in a positive note, UK trade deficit probably narrowed in June. In Australia, a survey is likely to show that business and consumer confidence improved further in July. Finally, it will be a busy week for China. We expect some pick up in exports and substantial increase in industrial production. Also, consumer deflation likely continued in July.
BOJ Keeps Rate at 0.1% 
Published: 8/10/2009 11:47:41 PM
By: TradingEconomics.com, Bloomberg, WSJ
The Bank of Japan kept interest rates unchanged and refrained from unveiling any new measures as policy makers focused on the risk that recent economic improvements will fail to translate into a sustainable recovery. 
China’s Exports Decline for Ninth Month 
Published: 8/10/2009 11:34:13 PM
By: TradingEconomics.com, Bloomberg
China’s exports fell for a ninth month on weak global demand, reinforcing the government’s case for sticking with a “moderately loose” monetary policy to fuel domestic growth. 
Is Quantitative Easing Helping the British Economy? 
Published: 8/10/2009 4:46:49 PM
By: Anna Fedec, contact@tradingeconomics.com
Last week, the Bank of England has decided to extend its quantitative easing monetary policy, increasing its size by £50bn to £175bn. And although it is too early to make a full assessment of QE’s effectiveness at Trading Economics we think that its impact on the economy may be very limited.