Mark & Protect 
Never lose your place again, and never lose your bookmark! BookMarker™ is super thin, so it fits easily in your book to mark your page WITHOUT breaking your book binding. The design includes a nifty strap that wraps around your book to keep the BookMarker™ in place and keep your book closed... how cool is that?!
Keeping your book closed is as simple as 1-2-3:
1
Place pen in book 
2
Close book 
3
Wrap band around book
Next 
Write 
While it's thin enough to store between the pages of your book, the BookMarker™ was designed to be a comfortable writing instrument as well. 
Write when you need it!™
The red gripping area near the tip of the product has a precisely defined groove that fits the contour of your index finger perfectly. The weight of your hand transfers through that finger, allowing you to write longer without having to squeeze hard on the sides of the product. The BookMarker™ was designed to provide you with the comfort of a larger pen and the convenience of being able to store the product in you book! 
"Is it refillable?" You ask. Of course it is! Minimizing waste and our effects on the environment are important to us. We want you to use and reuse our products as long as possible, so we designed the BookMarker™ to use standard mini-size ballpoint pen refills. You can buy them at any office product store. We also sell a refill value-pack for your convenience (includes 4 sticky flags and 2 pen refills). 
Previous Next 
Tag 
Our high quality transparent sticky flags allow you to tag important pages in your book for reference later. You can easily write/draw on them for added functionality: Have a question on a particular passage? No problem- draw a question mark on the end of a flag and tag the page. Find a cool quote you'd like to share with others? No problem- draw a smiley face on the end and tag the page. Have a page that you just keep going back to everytime you pick up the book (e.g. answer key)? I think you get the picture! 
"Are they refillable?" You ask. Of course they are! Minimizing waste and our effects on the environment are important to us. We want you to use and reuse our products as long as possible, so we designed the BookMarker™ to use standard-sized sticky flags (0.47" x 1.7"). You can buy them at any office product store. We also sell a refill value-pack for your convenience (includes 4 sticky flags and 2 pen refills). 
Previous