Bulgari shops also have a lot in Japan, among them high-profile retail, "Ginza Tower" and "Twin Omotesando shop" about. 
Bulgari Ginza Tower in Ginza Tokyo, 11 October 2007, built in 2-chome, 11-story building. 
1 and 4 from the floor of the shop floor by Bulgari, the total floor space of approximately 940 square meters and I was told. 
Ginza Tower is a story of the watch and jewelry section, second floor and small leather handbags, eyewear and accessories section, and the third floor bridal salon VIP Room, 4th floor repair is a professional service department. 
9th Floor Tower, 10 floors are in the direct management of the Italian restaurant and bar, you can have a delicious meal after shopping at the store. 
The look of a massive shop in Milan is a great sense of openness in Italy "Bulgari Hotels" is based, the dinners and lunches, afternoon tea and enjoy. 
The top floor has a terrace and Italian gardens, and open space to be used as a venue for events and functions. 
Bulgari Ginza Tower store, each department "Limited Ginza Tower" are sold. 
BC of the 2-4 draw PAVE diamond ring logo and a valuable antique coin pendant embedded century. 
There are also limited to small items such as leather handbags and other SUPESHARUUOTCHI. 
You can buy only here, there are popular as birthday and anniversary gifts. 
Along with the popular Ginza Tower, 11, also born in 2007, "Shop BVLGARI OMOTESANDO twin." 
This is a floor clock jewelry, leather goods, and dealing with shops and other small accessories. 
The first floor has a separate entrance for each floor of products, you can enjoy the feeling of being around the many shops despite the same floor. 
Bridal Corner on the 2nd floor, open air terrace with "cafe-il." 
And thus each of the independent shops and cafes and Bridal Corner. 
Like chocolate shop on the second floor "SHOKORATO file". 
This shop has a workshop attached Chocolate offers handmade chocolates BVLGARI finest. 
Store to match the interior of mosaic floors and glass walls are very sophisticated. 
Exhibitions are like jewels and chocolate, chocolate can choose to have the sense to choose the jewelry. 
The remarks were reminiscent of Japan's market growth strategy TORABANI Francis is chief executive of Bulgari, the increase in the charm of the shop has something extra to shop in Ginza Twin Towers and also this OMOTESANDO is expected.