A small, cheap, and easy device that provides your computers and servers
with extra performance, security, and reliability.
Introduction
The Entropy Key, or eKey, is a small, unobtrusive and easily installed
USB stick that generates high-quality random numbers, or entropy, which
can improve the performance, security and reliability of servers. It can
also be used with scientific, gambling and lottery applications, or
anywhere where good random numbers are needed. It has been developed by
UK-based Simtec Electronics, a design consultancy and manufacturing
partner with 20 years of experience in designing and building high-speed,
high-performance electronics with a speciality in embedded ARM-based
designs. It is currently undergoing testing with the help of selected
customers.
The eKey contains two high-quality quantum noise generators, and an
ARM Cortex CPU that actively measures, checks and confirms all generated
random numbers, before encrypting them and sending them to the server.
It also actively detects attempts to corrupt or sway the device. It aims
towards FIPS-140-2 Level 3 compliance with some elements of Level 4,
including tamper-evidence, tamper-proofing, role-based authentication,
and environmental attacks. If it detects that one of its two generators
has failed, may be about to fail, or if it detects a physical attack, it
will automatically shut down.
How the eKey helps your security
The eKey generates a constant stream of very high-quality random numbers,
ready to be mixed into the entropy already collected by your computer.
The quality of the numbers passes randomness tests such as Diehard and
Dieharder, chi and est. This means that when your computer requires
random numbers, which is usually for very security-sensitive tasks such
as certificate and key creation, administration, VPN access, and even
customer-facing web requests, the data used to secure them is even
stronger. The eKey also makes it extremely difficult for any attacker
to discover what random data has been used, even if they have physical
access to the eKey.
How the eKey helps performance and reliability
Operating systems such as Linux have a built-in pool of random data that
they top up from devices like the eKey and other such sources.
Applications that require random data, such as web servers, VPN servers
and clients, administration tools and such, then read from this pool.
The problem is that the pool is of fixed size; just 4kB. If an
application tries to read from the pool, and there is not enough data
to satisfy its request, the application is frozen in limbo until
enough entropy has been collected to fill the pool to the point of
being able to satisfy the request, leading to delays in the delivery
of services. Worse, this frozen state reduces the ability of the
operating system to generate its own random data, as their collectors
are based on the timings of activity. The eKey keeps this pool topped
up, meaning even at busy times for your server, the pool is full or
very nearly full, leading to faster response times and fewer
difficult-to-diagnose service pauses. And if a single eKey doesn't
provide enough to keep your busy server stoked with entropy, then
you can just plug another in.
Below are two graphs from live servers. The left shows a server running
several virtual machines, a web proxy, and firewalling for around 300
users to gigabit ethernet. The right a similar server, handling mostly
TLS-encrypted email and HTTP transactions.
The first graph shows a server using a single eKey keeping its entropy
topped up. The rapid drop in available entropy was caused by the eKey
being unplugged in order to plug in a keyboard to do some administration.
At this point, the performance of the box would have dropped due to
applications being starved of the data they need to continue.
The second graph shows a server that is not equiped with an eKey at all.
As you can see, the available entropy is almost always well below the
maximum 4kB, and varies greatly. The spikes upward are where the
server's operating system's own random data gathering techniques have
managed to top up the pool, but not to the same ability as the server
with an eKey. Equipping this server with an eKey would greatly reduce
the latency with which it services requests.
Where can I get one?
The eKey is currently undergoing testing having been in development
for over a year. If you are interested in testing one, or hearing from
us when the device goes on general sale, please contact
us at ekey@simtec.co.uk.
The technical stuff
The eKey uses P-N semiconductor junctions reverse biassed with a
high enough voltage to bring them near to, but not beyond,
breakdown in order to generate noise. In other words, it has a
pair of devices that are wired up in such a way that as a high
potential is applied across them, where electrons do not
normally flow in this direction and would be blocked, the high
voltage compresses the semiconduction gap sufficiently that the
occasional stray electron will quantum tunnel through the P-N
junction. (This is sometimes referred to as avalanche noise.)
When this happens is unpredictable, and this is what the eKey
measures.
These noise generators are then coupled to a 72MHz ARM Cortex-M3
on the device. This processor samples the generators at a high
frequency, forming a stream of random bytes. These stream of
bytes is then analysed using Üli Maurer's universal test
for random bit generators whereby the amount of entropy in the
streams is estimated rather conservatively. The streams are also
exclusive-ORed together and that stream's entropy is estimated
in the same manner. If the raw streams appear to have severely
reduced entropy then it indicates a fault in that generator, if
the third stream has low entropy then it indicates that the
generators have correlated and are not independently gathering
entropy. Any of those three states are considered a failure
mode and will result in the eKey locking itself out of the host,
returning only an error code instead of generating entropy
packets.
The two raw streams are then processed further and their entropy
estimated after a debiassing process has been performed. Again,
if the estimated entropy in the stream is seen to vary too
wildly at this stage, the eKey will lock itself out. The
processed streams are then mixed into a pool, made with a secure
hashing function, which once at least 50% more entropy has been
mixed into the pool than it could possibly hold it is finalised
and another pool initialised. Once enough pools have been
processed to fill 20000 bits of pool, the totality is subjected
to the tests stipulated in FIPS 140-2. These tests produce a
PASS/FAIL indicator for the block. On its own, this is not
useful, since a perfectly random block could quite plausibly
fail the tests. The eKey therefore keeps running statistics on
the FIPS 140-2 tests and will lock itself out if the ratio of
failed blocks to passed blocks rises above a conservative
estimate of the statistical likelyhood of failure. Once the
block has been analysed, it is chopped up into 32 byte packets
and this is handed off to the protocol handler in the
device. Through this process, each 256 bit block of data handed
to the host was formed from somewhere in the region of 3840 bits
read from the quantum generators.
The protocol handler deals with the communication to the host computer.
The device emulates a standard USB CDC serial port, with out-of-the-box
driver support for numerous platforms. The eKey encrypts all random
data it sends to the host using a session key and marking each one with
a sequence number, stopping when the sequence number gets too high. The
eKey authenticates all packets it sends using a packet-MAC mechanism
where the MAC includes the session key generated during communication
with the host. The session key is routinely regenerated using a shared
secret, unique to each eKey, which can be changed at will by the owner
of the eKey. The protocol handler also handles telling the host
computer about failures and possible attacks, such as the generators
becoming correlated or failing. The protocol handler periodiclaly
reports various statistics to the host, such as the current state of the
stream estimators and the FIPS 140-2 test statistics, as well as
information from the temperature monitoring parts of the device. An
open-source daemon on the host side then communicates with the key,
setting up sessions, receiving random data, checking its authenticity,
and eventually using it to top up the system's own random number pool.
The eKey can automatically detect various different physical attacks,
such as temperature changes (by using a built-in temperature sensor),
and opening of the case (as the final product will be injected with
epoxy; opening the case will destroy it).
Currently, this daemon is available for Linux (and packages suitable
for Debian and Ubuntu can be provided, as well as source tarballs),
but other platforms are being investigated.
Simtec Electronics, Avondale Drive, Tarleton, Lancashire, PR4 6AX,
UNITED KINGDOM.
Switchboard: +44 (0)1772 978010 Support: +44 (0)1772 978013
Fax: +44 (0)1772 816426
sales@simtec.co.uk |
www.simtec.co.uk