If you feel you着KONASHITAI well will often ABAKURO. 
ABAKURO and is known as the nickname is back in Japan, officially, ABAKURONBI & Fitch (Abercrombie & Fitch) is called. 
Old, the 1892 brand was developed for men as a small outdoor specialty shops from New York, are now popular with fashion-inspired casual trend in New York advanced. 
Beckham and the famous, Mariah, Britney and other celebrities as well as overseas in Japan, Ayumi Hamasaki and Kimutaku, downtown and the beach girl are loved by many. 
ABAKURO attractive though it may be refined and casual American concept of the military college work. 
Casual luxuary clothing as their own advocate, and extend far beyond the casual, but the high quality of special processing, such as vintage or used, you will catch the spirit of keeping with the fashion-conscious teenagers. 
, The coordinating ABAKURO fashionable casual American now, or should I place the key in? 
Dressed in ABAKURO, you must refer to the style in America. 
The recent epidemic of youth in America is still emphasized the youth full of physical beauty. 
United States preferred a well-muscled body than Japan, is also popular daily exercise and strength training. 
ABAKURO in coordinating the work, you need sharp, smart body lean. 
ABAKURO clothes, do not afford much, and what the body show a line張RI付I physically quite right, many are often designed on purpose to show the exposure of the belly button for women. 
In Japan, the tendency to pursue a more muscular American Beauty is not seen much, if you consider the dressing of ABAKURO, no body would not waste a degree of getting the condition. 
Therefore, it is impossible to buy a size too large on purpose is not recommended. 
Conversely, we can say is that many foreign brands, the right size for coordinating ABAKURO Japanese, or one size smaller in fact, for children DAっor XL. 
XL is for children, in many cases, adult size M KAWARIMASEN much. 
Length is short and the difference is significant because it is smaller around the neck, a small Japanese-built is often tailored to the contrary about it. 
Many Japanese people like to actually buy the fake ABAKURO is about to be tagged with the logo of the brand to children's imitation of adult products on purpose. 
See ABAKURO dressed in the dressing is good to see celebrities in Japan, it will be great to see a hint of international celebrity. 
The ABAKURO, the preeminent brand that is not in shape to cover at least is certain, depending on taste and style, it is possible誤魔化SU. 
It might be a bit advanced for you to get the attention of celebrities usual fashion, you might discover something as a reference point for dressing the ABAKURO.