Product design can be defined as the idea generation, concept development, testing and manufacturing or implementation of a physical object or service. Product Designers conceptualize and evaluate ideas, making them tangible through products in a more systematic approach. Today, we are showing you 27 Colorful And Futuristic Innovations In Product Design. I appreciate all those talented designers who presented these excellent concepts and ideas in product design industry with their efforts, imaginations and creativity and give us a chance to see these creative wonders. This list is not long in numbers but I promise you that when you start browsing them in details it will surely refresh you. These are the wonder creations of those guys who use their creativity with a different angle and approach to get the result that makes a difference.
You are welcome to share if you know more Product Design examples which our readers/viewers may like.  Do you want to be the first one to know the latest happenings at SmashingApps.com just subscribe to our rss feed and you can follow us on twitter as well.
Mobile Phone Concept by Mac Funamizu
Maingear Desktop Concept by Nuno Teixeira
‘The Clock Clock’ by Humans since 1982
Beer Crate by Luis Luna
Flee The Digital Cam by hakan bogazpinar
Chest-o-Drawers by Stanislav Katz
ORB by Djordje Zivanovic 
CMYK Pen by Roma & Sergey
‘Split’ box shelves by Peter Marigold
caramelo by Luis Luna
Iview by Nuno Teixeira
I’m not a clock by Mehmet Gozetlik
ecolos pipe by hakan bogazpinar
Really Really Smart by Ryan Eder & Chris Daniels
Rabbit Chair by Stanislav Katz
Nintendo NES by Javier Segovia
EPOS-Lite Cash Registger by Stephen Allport
Concept Cellphone by TAMER KOSELI 
Ply Laptop Case by Brian Kelly 
DIGIT MP3 concept by Nuno Teixeira
T.I.M. office calendar by Qaa’im A. Goodwin
Modular Shelving Unit by Maria Yasko
Polygon Bike Concept by Reindy Allendra
More Than Words by mintselect @ mintpass
FanClock by Stanislav Katz
USB Flash Concept by Damjan Stankovic
identica by hakan bogazpinar
If you enjoyed this post, please consider to leave 
a comment or subscribe 
to the feed and get future articles delivered to your feed reader. 
You May be Interested In More Interesting Free Resources
13 Simple And Elegant Free Wordpress ThemesFeedreader is a FREE RSS News Aggregation SolutionWrite Upside Down With Flip Title25 Excellent And Useful Adobe AIR Tutorials & ResourcesCreate Image Slideshows That Look More Like Videos!Free PHP, JavaScript And Ajax Based ShoutBoxFree Tool To Count Words In PDF, HTML, XML, CSV, And Text FilesA Simple Way To Send PDF Files With Ease22 Motivational And Excellent Photography Dedicated To The Labor DayDownload Free Flash Templates With .FLA Source Files! 
Comments
No comments yet.
Leave a comment
Name (required) 
E-mail (required) 
URI
Your Comment
Another Free Photoshop Brushes Collection for Your Library
The most amazing thing in the web that free resources never end ;) There are always new resources especially for Photoshop and Photoshop brushes.I hope you like this brushes collection. 
By: Rafiq elmansy | 2009-08-09 
35+ incredible Digital Abstract Arts
Digital abstracts represents the depiction of imagery in arts. Abstraction exists along a continuum. Even art that aims for verisimilitude of the highest degree can be said to be an abstract. Here is the collection of 35+ best digital abstract arts created by various designers. 
By: Mohamed Rias | 2009-08-09 
35+ Best Graphics from TIME Magazine
I found an interesting subject about percentage graphs from Time Magazine website, there is number of listed graphs in different format for our graph design inspirations, hope you peoples visit there and may take ideas for your design needs. 
By: Dzinepress | 2009-08-09 
25+ Create Amazing Image Effects with Some of the Best jQuery Plugins Available
This article will introduce you to more than 25 jQuery plugins providing enhancements to how you can display images on your web pages. This is essential for creating dynamic state of the art web solutions 
By: tripwire | 2009-08-09 
150 MUST HAVE Web Developer Tools and Techniques
Ajax scripts and tricks ready to use, menus, navigation and tabs, auto completion, form and button enhancements, table and grid aid, powerful stuff you can do with images windows and much more. 
By: tripwire | 2009-08-09 
Amazing Free Wordpress Themes Collection
some of the wonderful free Wordpress themes to download. 
By: Rafiq elmansy | 2009-08-08 
10 Must Read Design Articles You Should Bookmark Right Now
Every week we select the stories from Inspired News that receive the most clicks from the community, in order for you to be sure you don’t miss the most important 10 articles 
By: addi | 2009-08-08 
77 Excellent Photoshop Tutorials For Designing Posters
When it comes to Image editing or photo enhancement, Adobe Photoshop is usually the primary option to consider. However, the software package itself is a quite hard to learn — and extremely hard to master. 
By: Mike P. | 2009-08-08 
65+ free exceptional Wordpress Themes worth investigating
In this article we present 65+ free exceptional Wordpress themes. 
By: tripwire | 2009-08-08 
70+ very useful Drupal 6.x Themes
In this article tripwire magazine provide 70+ themes for Drupal 6. Some are free but I have also decided to add some premium themes as well. 
By: tripwire | 2009-08-08 
Submit Your News | View News Archive