Here are our editor's picks for the Top 10 Best Flash Websites of 2009 based on visual artistry, integrated sound, ease of use, and uniqueness.
1 | Monoface 
Mono is an advertising agency based in Minneapolis, MN that lives by the motto that "simpler is better." The "Mono"face site lives up to that motto by presenting visitors with a fun and simple Flash application that allows them to sculpt a Mr. Potato Head style face that contains 759,375 entertaining possibilities. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
2 | Get The Glass 
Get The Glass is the work of the California Milk Processor Board and was designed to encourage increased milk consumption by inviting visitors to participate in a comically entertaining Flash based game whose objective is to Get the Glass--of milk of course. The current design appeared in late 2007. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
3 | NVIDIA® - Speak Visual™ 
Speak Visual is a Flash based microsite designed to promote the power of Nvidia's graphic processors and was developed in a collaboration between the Odopod and Cutwater design studios. The site was launched in December 2008 and currently serves as a showcase for a multimedia design contest sponsored by Nvidia. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
4 | AgencyNet Interactive 
AgencyNet Interactive is a design studio based in New York City, NY and Fort Lauderdale, FL whose current website design appeared in March of 2005. Absolutely stunning site! The depth and functionality of the site far surpasses any Flash based site we've ever seen, but don't take our word for it... 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
5 | Section Seven Inc. 
Section Seven Inc. is a website design studio that has utilized the power of Flash to create a truly unique navigation system that allows users to tour their portfolio in style. Their current site appeared on the web in early 2007 and has received numerous awards including the prestigious FWA. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
6 | Dave Werner's Portfolio 
Dave Werner used his Flash skills to not only publish his portfolio, but through the use of well narrated video he gives visitors a sense of his personal story which seeks to give stronger voice and context to his presented work. The current vision of his site came alive in mid 2006. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
7 | BK Design | Montreal Based Design Studio 
BK Design is a Montreal Based design and marketing studio who used the demo found here to showcase the great potential of interactive architectural visualization integrated into web pages. The current design was published in 2007 and is a perfect example of Flash based 3-D motion. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
8 | 2Advanced Studios 
2Advanced Studios is an interactive design firm based in Aliso Viejo, CA whose current design appeared in August 2006. 2Advanced has always been known for their stylish neo-ancient homepage design, but their latest redesign takes that to a whole new level with a background mural that is truly inspiring. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
9 | Dallas Advertising Agency | TargetScope 
Target Scope is an advertising agency based in Dallas, Texas whose current flash website design appeared in June of 2005. Their use of a 1950's flyboy backdrop is completely innovative because of the depth they add to what could have easily been an overused theme. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA 
10 | Creaktif ! 
Creaktif is a complete design studio working in print, film and interactive mediums based in France whose current website design appeared in October of 2005. The Creaktif team completely expresses themselves within their site design by fully taking advantage of the power & flexibility of Flash. 
Best Flash Website Design | eBizMBA
Other Popular eBizMBA Articles
The 25 Most Popular Blogs  | 
Top 20 Social Bookmarking Websites  | 
The Most Popular Humor Websites  | 
25 Top Video Game Websites  | 
The Best Flash Websites 2009  | 
Top Comparison Shopping Websites  | 
15 Most Popular Website Design Sites  | 
20 Most Popular Business Websites  | 
Most Popular Social Networking Websites  |  
The Largest Job Search Wesbites  | 
Most Popular Health Websites  | 
The Most Popular Web 2.0 Websites  | 
The 15 Largest Travel Websites  | 
15 Most Popular SEO Websites  | 
More Articles...