World’s number 1 golfer, Tiger Woods likely to be fined, after winning the 2009 Bridgestone Invitational. The Professional golfer would be fined for criticizing a rule, publicly.....World’s number 1 golfer, Tiger Woods likely to be fined, after winning the 2009 Bridgestone Invitational. The Professional golfer would be fined for criticizing a rule, publicly.
Padraig Harrington, who is winner of three major championships, a pro on the European Tour for 12 years and the PGA Tour for four years, was up against Tiger Woods on Sunday at Firestone Country Club. Woods had a four-shot victory there though, but he was really disturbed when both the players were reportedly put on the clock at the par-5 16th during the course of play. He claims that it made Harrington rush 3 difficult shots.
The European Tour chief referee John Paramor informed both Woods and Harrington that they were timed, meaning “put on the clock” by a rules official. Both players were affected with it at the 16th tee by missing the fairway Woods did escape but Paddy could not. He had to rush so he played bad shots. He had 40 seconds to complete the job otherwise; a warning and one stroke penalty would follow.
So it was not the great victory Woods achieved that brought him in the News again, rather something totally different that drew the attention of many this time. May be the words he used when the game was over. He stated, “I was just telling Padraig that I am sorry if the course official Mr. John interrupted during a wonderful battle for 16 holes. We were going for it neck to neck when it all happened. Paddy and I will do it again.”
In his opinion: “I do not think Paddy would have hit the pitch shot like that if he was able to take his time. He would look and analyzed it” But he was on the clock so had to get up quickly and hit it.”
Here is a photo of American professional golfer, Tiger Woods.
Tiger Woods
Related posts:Hank Kuehne A professional golfer, Hank Kuehne full name Henry August...Lil Wayne Shot At Airport The Grammy Award Winner musician, Lil Wayne (Dwayne Michael...Jens Voigt Crash Here is a photo taken after the crash of...Tom Watson Divorce What is the topic ‘Tom Watson Divorce?’ Is the...Cheyenne Cherry 17-year-old Cheyenne Cherry is really a mad girl. Cheyenne...