COMMENTARY: James
Kirchick says last week's shooting at a gay youth
center in Tel Aviv could have only happened in Israe l...
because it's the only place in the Middle East where
gay people can meet in the open.
Israeli prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu (left) Visits Beit paz,
the gay youth center where two people were murdered on
August 6, 2009 in Tel Aviv. 26-year-old Nir Katz and
17-year-old Liz Trubeshi were killed and ten others
were injured in a shooting attack at the center on August
1.
At a Washington
vigil held last Monday evening to mourn the victims of
the Tel Aviv gay youth center shooting, an official from the
Israeli embassy made a keen observation. It was a
“tragic paradox,” he said, for
“this crime could only take place in Israel out of
all the countries in the Middle East because
there’s nowhere else in the Middle East where
there could be a meeting house for gay young people, which
is open and which everybody knows its address.” 
That Israel is
the only country in the region where homosexuality is not
illegal will come as cold comfort to the victims, their
families, and the country’s gays, who are
rightly outraged that an individual would shoot up a
meeting place for gay youths. Testaments to the vibrancy and
openness of Israeli gay life means nothing when two young
people lie dead, nearly a dozen are injured, and an
entire community is in shock. 
But if there is
anything positive to be gleaned from this horrific
incident, it has been the reaction of the Jewish
state’s citizens. The country’s
newspapers have published countless articles about the
status of gay people in Israeli society and the
persistent problem of homophobia. Even the
country’s ultrareligious figures -- perhaps
cognizant of how their own teachings may have created an
environment in which such an attack could take place
-- have condemned the murders. 
Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, derided by so many critics of Israel
as a far-right warmonger, immediately visited the gay center
and pledged that his government would find the killer.
“I say to the Israeli people: We are a
democratic country, we are a country of tolerance, a country
of laws, and we must respect every person, whoever and
wherever he is,” he said.