SAY GOODBYE to the Age of 2oz copper heatsinks. The cool new material is graphite, at least according to Frosty Tech. The site focuses on a new lightweight heatsink made from a graphite-based thermally conductive material, linking back to the material’s manufacturer.  You can see the research here, here and here.
Anandtech gives us an preview of its upcoming analysis of AMD and Intel notebooks’ battery life. Jarred got a couple of Gateway notebooks that are similarly specced (RAM, HDD, LCD etc) but with competing architectures. AMD needs to get back to the drawing board, it seems.
Benchmark Reviews rounded up as many LGA 1366 coolers as it could and came up with a Q2 2009 LGA 1366 Best CPU Cooler. Considering Core i7 is favourable to overclocking, these really took a pounding. Prolimatech’s Megahalems rule the coop.
Pre-assembled liquid cooling systems are becoming fairly commonplace nowadays, for example the CoolIT Systems Domino, reviewed here at Big Bruin. A mere $80 at Newegg. 
Gigabyte is making a comeback in the PC Case business. Bit-Tech has a review of the Sumo 4112, a mid-tower case that shows it’s more of a looker than anything else.
Bjorn 3D doubles-up on the daily dose of OCZ. Mark tests the Vertex 60GB and Agility 128GB kits from the memory/storage/power company. Disregard the “pricey” remarks, OCZ still seems to offer great price/performance on either line of SSDs.
Neoseeker also tested the 785G chipset, and come to that same conclusion that the tweaks and additions haven’t really earned it its name. Neoseeker focuses on gaming tests, so you can see why.
Hardware Bistro serves up a dose of Galaxy’s GeForce GTS 250 (aka 9800GT) today. The card is the low-end of the Nvidia menu but performs well and still has some overclocking ability in it. Good if you can’t afford a GTX 260+.
Elite Bastards gives us a shot of XFX’s GeForce GTX 275 XXX 896MB. The XXX-series holds a degree in “factory-overclocked” and you get it at 670/1470/1180MHz core, shader and memory clocks. It also features a gynormous amount of valuable software.
Tweak Town tests the Sapphire Radeon HD 4890 Vapor-X  graphics card. According to Shane’s review, you’re buying extra GPU horsepower, a quieter (albeit warmer) cooler and 2 gigs of RAM, although RAM doesn’t factor in as much into the performance equation as you’d think.
Xbit is trying out AeroCool’s top PC cases, including some with extreme cooling solutions or just massive airflow. Seven cases in total, there’s a bit for everyone and they seem to be affordable, too.
Asus isn’t known for its set-top boxes or media playing devices, but Thrusted Reviews has managed to grab an Asus O!Play (sic) HDP-R1. A rather cheap media player box that you can plug into your network and hook up your TV for playback. Just £90, including remote. Might look plasticky, but works fine.
Guru of 3D spends some quality time with the OCZ Agility SSD, the cheapest series in the OCZ line-up. Somehow OCZ’s crack SSD team has managed to spit out something of a performer with low prices (for an SSD). $290 will get you a 120GB unit. µ