Brunei is accessible by air, road and sea. The Pan Borneo Highway, a project in collaboration with Malaysia, is the main highway running through Brunei. Taxis, hire cars and buses are the most commonly used modes of transport to get around within Brunei. The purple minibus network is reliable and convenient but only in and around Bandar Seri Begawan. Private and public buses also operate between Bandar Seri Begawan and Kuala Belait, Sarawak (near Kuala Baram) and Seria.
[read more]
Tourists can also travel around Brunei on a locally run tour with local guides. This will save them the hassle of organising their own transport.For information on getting to, from and around Brunei, take a look at our Brunei Transportation Guide below. Our Brunei Country Guide provides more local travel information, whilst joining a Brunei tour is a great way of getting around and exploring the main Brunei highlights and attractions.Brunei Transportation Guide Getting to BruneiBy AirDirect flights operate between Brunei and Australia and ten other Asian cities. There is a departure tax of US $3.50 for flights from Brunei to Singapore and Malaysia. The departure tax to the remaining destinations is US $8.50. A departure tax of Br $5 is levied on all flights to Kuching and Kota Kinabalu and Br $12 for destinations other than these. It is payable by cash at the check-in counter at the airport. Taxes are to be paid in Brunei dollars.Brunei International Airport (BWN) is located at a distance of 6 miles (10 kilometres) from Bandar Seri Begawan. Taxis ply from the airport to the city and cost approximately Br $20. Taxis that are hired from the car park of the airport charge less than those hired inside the airport. Airport transfers after 10.00 pm attract an additional surcharge. A cheaper option is the comfortable minibus for which the fare is only Br $1.By Water Water taxis and ships operate passenger cruise services between Luaban (Sabah) in Malaysia and Bandar Seri Begawan (BSB). There is also a regular passenger boat service between Muara port and Singapore. Kuala Belait and Muara are the major commercial ports.By RoadThere are many roads from Sarawak to Brunei. Some of these are good but some others are unpaved.Getting Around Brunei It is possible to reach Malaysia (Sarawak) by road in a single day, provided the departure is early in the morning. Vehicles in Brunei drive on the left of the road. Tourists who want to explore the surrounding areas are advised to hire a car. Self drive as well as chauffeur driven cars are available in Brunei.BoatsThere is a regular fast boat service between Bandar Seri Begawan and Bangar. There are also boat services from Bandar Seri Begawan to Sabah and to some of the more isolated towns of the Temburong district. Labuan, the duty free island which is now part of Malaysia, can be accessed through private shuttle services from Bandar Seri Begawan.Water taxis are a popular mode of transport in Brunei and can be hired from the waterfront at Bandar Seri Begawan. Short hauls cost approximately Br $2 while the charge for a full day is approximately Br $20 or Br $25 per hour.Car and MotorcycleThe easiest way to get around Brunei is by hiring a car. The drivers are relatively safe compared to their Southeast Asian counterparts. However, rental charges are high (Br $70 for one day) and it may not be easy to get used to driving on the left!Hitchhiking is still a novelty in Brunei and therefore easier than elsewhere. However, cars rarely stop on main highways, and hitchhiking in any part of the world is never really safe. So it is best to use this option only if all else fails.Bus and TramThe bus network within Bandar Seri Begawan is reliable and economical. Tickets cost between Br $1 and Br $2. Buses operate only between 6.00 am and 6.00 pm, after which you will have to use taxis, which are more expensive. Also, the bus network outside Bandar Seri Begawan is poor and it is better to hire a car.
MegaBorneo Marketing Services provides you the convenience of one stop booking centre for all your transportation needs in Brunei, Labuan, Sabah and Sarawak.  Services available include booking and delivery services of airlines tickets, ferry tickets, overland transfer services between cities and towns in Brunei, Sabah and Sarawak. 
Type:
One-stop transport booking centre (airline, ferry and car)
Address:
Unit 217, Plaza Athirah, Jalan Kubah Makam Diraja, Jalan Tutong, Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei
Phone:
+673 - 2224026 / 2224027 / 673 - 7108497
Fax:
+ 673 2224028
Email:
megaborneo@brunet.bn
Website:
http://www.megaborneo.com