Onkyo TX-NR807 and TX-SR707 receivers keep the updates rollingby Steven Kim posted Aug 10th 2009 at 7:24PM
More than a few people have been interested in Onkyo's x07 receiver updates, and now the newness has come to the TX-SR707 and TX-NR807 models. The outgoing TX-SR706 and TX-SR806 models are well-specced to begin with, and thankfully Onkyo didn't mess with that formula. As you can guess from the "NR" designation, the $1,099 TX-NR807 adds in network streaming (including Pandora, Rhapsody, DLNA and Windows 7) to the 135-Watt/channel output. If you can do without the networking and only need 100-Watts, the TX-SR707 will save you a couple hundred bucks. Both models are THX Select2 badged, Faroudja scaling, and let you pick how to use your rear surround outputs by including both Dolby ProLogic IIz and Audyssey DSX processing. Like we said, Onkyo knows how to fill up the spec list, so head past the break for the full PR details.
(8/10/09) -- Onkyo has introduced and begun shipping its first network-capable home theater receiver configured for Pandora, Rhapsody, and Sirius' streaming internet radio services. The new Onkyo TX-NR807 also capable of playing computer music files from networked PCs, is fully compatible with the Digital Living Network Alliance's DLNA 1.5 consumer electronics interoperability specification, and sells for less than half the price of the company's previous network-capable model. With THX Select2 Plus certification and state-of-the-art processing from Dolby, DTS, Audyssey and Faroudja, the Onkyo TX-NR807 offers high definition audio and video performance. The TX-NR807 and non-networking TX-SR707, also introduced today, are Onkyo's first receivers to offer Audyssey DSX soundstage extension processing in addition to Dolby Pro Logic IIz height-capabilities. The Onkyo TX-NR807 connects directly to the internet or a home network via a rear-panel Ethernet port. The receiver's on-screen user interface allows users direct access to Pandora, Rhapsody, Sirius Internet Radio, and vTuner streaming radio services, or to access MP3, WMA, FLAC, Lossless, Ogg Vorbis, and AAC files from any computer or storage device on the network. The receiver is Windows 7 compatible, and its Ethernet port can also be used for firmware updates. The TX-NR807 also includes Onkyo's new Bi-Directional Preprogrammed RI Remote Control which will impress anyone who has ever been frustrated by the trial-and-error manual data inputs and paper listings usually needed to program associated TV's, disc players, cable boxes, and other components. Onkyo's new system allows users to select from a on-screen list of compatible products, and then automatically transmit the codes from the receiver to the remote control. The remote also offers up to four macro programs for simultaneous activation of multiple components and feature sets. As a premium home theater receiver, the TX-NR807 is also the perfect match for high definition video displays with Blu-ray players and other HD sources. It has six HDMI 1.3a inputs, 1080p video upscaling of all sources using the powerful Faroudja DCDi Cinema processor chip. On the audio side it has a full suite of surround processing, including lossless Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD Master Audio. The Onkyo TX-NR807 is one of the first receivers to incorporate Audyssey DSX technology, which allows the back surround channels to be retasked for front-wide speakers to expand the width of the sounds stage, or for front height speakers to provide vertical ambience effects. The receiver also includes Audyssey MultiEQ room calibration technology, plus that company's Dynamic Volume and Dynamic EQ processing. Dolby ProLogic IIz processing is also included to provide an alternate implementation of height channel technology. The TX-NR807 has seven powerful 135-watts-per-channel Onkyo WRAT (Wide Range Amplifier Technology) amplifier sections for high output and low distortion, offering a dynamic power rating of 300 watts into 3 ohms. It has an extensive array of analog and digital inputs and outputs, including an MM/MC phono input. Its multiroom audio capabilities are similarly extensive with Powered Zone 2 and 3 capabilities, multiple DC triggers, bidirectional RS-232, and Onkyo's exclusive Universal Port for connection of an optional iPod Dock and HD Radio tuner. The Onkyo TX-NR807 is now shipping to Onkyo dealers and will have a manufacturer's suggested retail price of $1,099. Onkyo Debuts TX-SR707 Onkyo has also introduced the TX-SR707 THX-Select2 Plus home theater receiver, which has the same advanced high definition audio and video processing features as the TX-NR807, but uses a 7 x 100 Watts power amplifier section, Powered Zone 2, conventional preprogrammed remote control, and has no networking capabilities. The Onkyo TX-SR707 is currently available with a manufacturer's suggested retail price of $899.