A collection of resources for both free and premium fonts.And now for the adventurous story of a tiny little fish, searching through the great big sea…wait, that’s Finding Nemo, this is Finding Fonts, not exactly the same thing… And now for something, completely different. For a while now, we have had a fondness for fonts. From the perspectives of a designer and a writer, fonts play a very important role in presenting what we have to say and representing the tone and theme of the piece in which they are included. So making sure that you have the right font to fit your project is a more than a consideration, it is a necessity.
Whenever words are included in any kind of design, they are going to draw attention to themselves for the viewer knows they will be conveying some kind of message that accompanies the overall piece. Therefore, you want to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that the font you have selected is filling that role correctly and not effectively working against you. One of the best ways to ensure that you have the right typeface for your work, is by increasing your access to fonts, and thereby, the size of your overall font library. Which is what brings us to today’s post.
Finding Fonts: Free and Premium Resources, is a post designed to help you find that perfect little font in the massive swelling cyber sea…what do you know, it is like Finding Nemo! We have compiled for you some of the go to places we turn when we need to find a font that fits, whatever the job. From web design to print design, no matter the need, we are sure that you will find just what you are looking for from one of the collected resources…Enjoy.
Free Fonts
40+ Excellent Freefonts For Professional Design
I’m Just Creative
The League of Moveable Type
Exlijbris Font Foundary
Font Squirrel
Urban Fonts
FFonts
dafont
Premium Fonts
30 Fonts That All Designers Must Know & Should Own
13 typefaces for graphic designers
17 designers favorite fonts
80 Beautiful Typefaces For Professional Design
FontShop
MyFonts
Your Turn
Is there any place that you absolutely can’t do without when it comes to fonts that we have forgotten to mention? Then tell us about it in the comments below.
Angie is a freelance web and graphic designer who brings her love of community to the online design collective as co-editor of Fuel Your Creativity. Follow her on Twitter