Did you know that the measures can sunburn in green tea. 
The Japanese daily and drink is essential, many contain ingredients that are good for humans. 
The fresh green tea contains more polyphenols. 
The polyphenols are effective in their UV damage. 
Whitening effect of vitamin C content of lemon and is about 4 times and has been. 
Furthermore, the synergistic effect of vitamin C can be expected to also contain flavonoids that are good for whitening ingredients aid. 
The ingredients are green tea have been scientifically validated to, caffeine in green tea in the U.S. research team announced the results that I get to the tanning effect of the strong antioxidant effect. 
Cosmetic composition containing green tea is occurring substances such as peroxide which may cause stains, about one third has been reported that the data were cut to. 
Effects of green tea against sunburn from these things because it has been demonstrated, using sunscreen to prevent this is something many are deployed more as a commodity. 
The cosmetics are most often found. 
And is the most popular cosmetic lotion containing a combination of water and green tea component, when I get a suntan is伸BIMASU sales. 
Dark tea is the easiest way to apply sunscreen to the skin intact, to worry about what we eat and use up the time that each淹tea, green tea ingredients for cosmetics we recommend the product. 
By cleaning up the skin and prevent blemishes from the inside by drinking the tea itself, are becoming more and more young women who drink regularly. 
The easy-to-get in the hands of the Japanese presence, it is also easy to use. 
And how to make your own lotion, and how they put it in a bath tea bag. 
How widespread is this, now is also the component of green tea bath. 
In addition to sunscreen, one of the components contained in green tea catechin action can also be used to sterilize the skin from puberty to be effective acne skin. 
I know in the efficacy of the ingredients contained in the tea drinking around that can realize the power of green tea again, you are anti-natural sunscreen and drink to keep in mind also. 
The first思I浮KABEMASU that umbrella and sunscreen and anti-tanning But, I had a cup of tea in the prevention of unknowing. 
Those measures遣っattention to light is that if you drink green tea regularly active, and we too will see the effect on the skin.