Speculation is once again bubbling about Microsoft planning to unveil an Office for the iPhone-type product. This time, it's being fueled by a cryptic announcement of a press conference the Microsoft Mac Business Unit has scheduled for Aug. 13.
Despite the iPhone's lack of a physical keyboard, an Office suite for the device could help drive the device firmly into the business mainstream instead of lurking on its periphery. Currently, iPhone users can read Word, Excel and PowerPoint e-mail attachments but they can't edit these documents, although several third-party applications have cropped up that provide this functionality. 
Microsoft says Eric Wilfrid, general manager of the Microsoft Mac Business Unit, will lead the event, but is being characteristically coy about divulging other details. 
However, Microsoft executives have dropped hints in the past about this very subject. Wilfrid in January told TechFlash's Todd Bishop that his team was looking at developing an Office application for the iPhone. Stephen Elop, president of the Microsoft Business Division, made a similarly veiled comment about Office for the iPhone at the Web 2.0 conference in April. 
Nick Gold, sales manager at Chesapeake Systems, a Baltimore-based Apple VAR, is hoping Microsoft will offer a version of Outlook for the Mac that's on par with the Windows version and supports Exchange natively. Microsoft Office For Mac has included Exchange support since 2003 through Entourage, but solution providers have long complained about its clunky database and excessive costs. 
"Entourage has been a very rough 'replacement' for Outlook, and I know many users would love to see a real version of Outlook return," Gold said. 
Whatever Microsoft announces next week, it's likely to further the notion of the iPhone as something more than just a glittering consumer device and closer to an actual business tool. 
Apple, for its part, says this is happening already. In last month's quarterly earnings call, Apple said businesses and other large organizations are beginning to purchase large quantities of iPhones. Twenty percent of Fortune 100 firms have bought in excess of 10,000 iPhones and there are multiple corporate, government and higher-education customers that have bought more than 25,000 units, according to Apple. 
Overall, Apple sold 5.2 million iPhones during the quarter, a more than 600 percent increase from the 717,000 it sold in the year-ago quarter.