As I am attempting to focus on writing projects that are more scholarly
and academic on the one hand (i.e., work for my day job at MIT) and
more geared toward communicating free software principles toward wider
audiences on the other (e.g., Revealing Errors), I have little
choice but to back away from technical writing.
However, this last month has seen the culmination of a bunch of work
that I've done previously: two book projects that have been ongoing for
the last couple years or more have finally hit the shelves!
The first is the fourth edition (!) of the bestselling Official Ubuntu
Book. Much to my happiness, the book continues to do extremely well
and continues to receive solid reviews. This edition brings the book up
to date for Jaunty/9.04 and adds a few pieces here and there.
Although I was less active in this update than I have been in the past,
Corey Burger continued his great work and Matthew Helmke of Ubuntu
Forums fame stepped up to take a leading role. As I plan to retreat into
a more purely advisory role for the next edition of this book, I'm
thrilled to know that the project will remain in such capable hands.
I'm also thrilled that this edition of the book, like all previous
editions, is released as a free cultural work under CC BY-SA
For years, I have heard people say that although they like the Official
Ubuntu Book, it was a little too focused on desktops and on beginners
for their tastes. The newly released Official Ubuntu Server Book is
designed to address those concerns by providing an expanded guide to
more "advanced" topics and is targeted at system administrators trying
to get to know Ubuntu. Kyle Rankin planned and produced most of this
book but I was thrilled to help poke it in places, chime in during the
planning process, and to contribute a few chapters. Kyle is a
knowledgeable sysadmin and has done wonderful job with the book. I only
wish I could take more credit. The publisher has promised me that, at
the very least, my chapters will be distributed under CC BY-SA.
Many barriers to the adoption of free software are technical and a good
book can, and often does, make a big difference. I enjoy being able to
help address that problem. I also truly enjoy technical writing. I find
it satisfying to share something I know well with others and it is great
to know that I've helped someone with their problems. I'll assure I'll
be able to do things here and there, I'll miss technical writing as I
attempt "cut back."