Head of Chechen children's charity found shot dead with husband
The head of a children’s charity was found shot dead in Chechnya today, a day 
after she and her husband were abducted by armed men.
The bodies of Zarema Sadulayeva and Alik Dzhabrailov were found in the boot of 
a car in a suburb of the capital Grozny, the human rights group Memorial 
said. The murder of Ms Sadulayeva comes less than a month after a gang 
kidnapped and killed Natalia Estemirova, another prominent rights activist 
in the turbulent southern Russian region.
Chechnya’s Interior Ministry said the couple had been shot in the head and 
chest, the same method used to kill Ms Estemirova in July. Ms Sadulayeva and 
Mr Dzhabrailov were taken from the office of her charity, Save the 
Generation, on Monday.
The latest killings will pile pressure on the Kremlin to act over an apparent 
campaign of assassination against activists involved in civil society work 
in Chechnya. Human Rights Watch said that witnesses reported that the couple 
had been ordered to accompany armed men who identified themselves as members 
of the security services. 
Chechnya’s Kremlin-backed president, Ramzan Kadyrov, will be under renewed 
suspicion after the leader of the human rights group Memorial accused him of 
involvement in the murder of Ms Estemirova, the organisation’s 
representative in Grozny. 
She won international acclaim for her work exposing torture and kidnapping of 
people by security forces linked to Mr Kadyrov, and repeatedly criticised 
Chechnya’s President. Her body was found dumped on a roadside in the with 
gunshot wounds to the head and chest in neighbouring region of Ingushetia 
after she was kidnapped on a Grozny street by a group of masked men.
Mr Kadyrov rejected accusations of involvement in her murder. But he dismissed 
Ms Estemirova in a radio interview as someone who “never had any honour, 
dignity or conscience”. Russia’s President Medvedev responded to Ms 
Estemirova’s murder by praising her for speaking “the truth”.
Holly Cartner, Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said: 
“The shocking murder of Natalia Estemirova…has made it obvious that 
activists in Chechnya are being targeted for their work and are extremely 
vulnerable.”
Save the Generation was established in 2001 as a nongovernmental organisation 
offering psychological and physical rehabilitation to children injured and 
traumatised in two bitter wars fought between the Russian military and 
Chechen separatists since the early 1990s. 
It also worked with Unicef to promote the rights of disabled people and 
promote awareness of landmines.
Mr Kadyrov was installed as Chechnya’s leader by Vladimir Putin, to whom he 
has sworn loyalty. In return, activists claim, Mr Kadyrov is allowed to rule 
with impunity and has pursued a brutal campaign to wipe out opponents of his 
regime.
“The number of abductions in Chechnya has risen dramatically this year,” said 
Varya Pakhomenko of the Demos rights group. “The situation has become really 
catastrophic.”
The group returned to the Save the Generation office after taking Ms 
Sadulayeva and her husband away. They removed the couple’s mobile telephones 
and took her car.
Kheda Saratova, a local rights activist, said the organisation’s security 
guard had told her that three of the kidnappers were wearing military 
fatigues and two were in plain clothes. The guard is now under the 
protection of Chechnya's human rights ombudsman Nurdi Nukhazhiev. 
Ms Saratova said that Mr Dzhabrailov had been in prison for four years, 
accused of membership of an illegal separatist group. He and Ms Sadulayeva 
married a few months ago after he was freed.
"This is just unimaginable. They killed a young woman, she was probably 25, 
and her husband, who was about the same age. They had just got married," 
said rights activist Lyudmila Alexeyeva of the Moscow Helsinki group. 
Ms Alexeyeva said that there had been no political element to Ms Sadulayev’s 
work, adding: "She headed an NGO that saved a generation of children.They 
just helped disabled children and children from poor families...It just 
shows that anyone whose position allows them a gun can kill whoever they 
like.”