The CyLab Usable Privacy and Security Laboratory (CUPS)
brings together researchers working on a diverse set of projects related to
understanding and improving the usability of privacy and security
software and systems. 
Our
research employs a combination of three high-level strategies to
make secure systems more usable: building systems that "just
work" without involving humans in security-critical functions;
making secure systems intuitive and easy to use; and teaching
humans how to perform security-critical tasks.
CUPS is
affiliated with 
Carnegie Mellon
CyLab. Our research is
funded by grants from the National Science Foundation, the Army
Research Office, Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia (FCT) Portugal
under a grant from the Information and Communications Technology
Institute (ICTI) at CMU, Microsoft, and IBM.
Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed
in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily
reflect the views of the National Science Foundation or any of our
other funders.
We are participants in the IBM Open
Collaborative Research Initiative on Privacy and Security Policy Management. Wombat Security Technologies, Inc. is commercializing some of the technologies we developed.
CUPS PhD students come from several CMU PhD programs including the programs in Computation, Organizations and Society,
Engineering and Public Policy, Human
Computer Interaction, Computer
Science, and Public Policy and Management. Perspective students should apply directly to these programs and also send a letter of interest to the CUPS director.
News and Events
Josh Sunshine will be presenting the paper Crying Wolf: An Empirical Study of SSL Warning
Effectiveness. at USENIX Security 2009. There have been
articles on this paper in ABC
News, The
Tech Herald, Computerworld, and SC Magazine.
SOUPS 2009
was held July 15-17 in Mountain View, CA - proceedings are vailable online.
Lots of CUPS projects featured at the CFP 2009 Research showcase -- Locaccino, Privacy Finder, privacy nutrition
labels and more!
SOUPS PhD students Serge Egelman, Kami Vaniea, Janice Tsai, and
Patrick Kelley presented papers and posters at CHI 2009. Patrick won the student poster
competition!
Lorrie Cranor's article on phishing was published in the December issue of Scientific American
CUPS faculty Lorrie Cranor, Norman Sadeh, and Jason Hong have
co-founded Wombat Security
Technologies to commercialize CUPS-developed anti-phishing
technology.
Demos