Uji, Kyoto is recommended if the brown rice tea. 
In Kyoto in Kyoto could have tea with her HISHIMEKIAっO茶屋established. 
First to introduce the Uji tea shop "茶舗and Fuji." 
If you have a store in Kiyomizudera approach, in practice 30 years and yet history is the new shop. 
However, because the taste and quality ingredients to produce high quality Uji tea Uzitawara known as the birthplace of tea is no problem at all. 
The tea is sold in brown rice is refined green tea brown rice tea, tea with brown rice雁GA音Matcha, Sencha tea brown rice, brown rice tea雁GA音There are four types. 
First comes a refined green tea and the flavor out of Who knows the smell of brown rice mixed in refined green tea scented tea. 
Taste is smooth and MATTARI. 
雁GA音tea is Riya Kaoru旨MI have a unique part of the Matcha Uji旨MI mellow芳BASHI of brown rice and it is not anything as elegant and tasteful. 
Tea may also have an astringent taste and a bit weak because there is a way to make a cup of so weak芳BASHIKU by adding brown rice tea. 
These also can be purchased at the head office in Kyoto, you can also enjoy a foot in Kyoto運BENAI may be available in the online shop. 
Other "Kyoto house" brown rice tea is famous for sinus Akira Izumi Yoshida Toshikazu sells. 
Mixed together and made this tea with Sencha Green Tea and Yoshida Toshikazu work. 
The thick green tea, the tea I have this smell and look beautiful beyond expression beautiful sparkle when poured into湯呑MI. 
A second煎,煎two eyes so you can enjoy a different taste, I can use as a tea for the guests. 
Brown rice tea is of high repute who is also in use. 
CM famous TV, tea and brown rice from right衛門I of the Kyoto福寿園Suntory sales are sales, pack the stands for home, so also are sold in packs of brown rice tea tea tea, tea brown rice If you would like to try and try again. 
Appeal of brown rice and drink tea when I'm tired, I think that you can relax in the comfort of a breather. 
In recent years, now you can buy brown rice tea in plastic bottles in supermarkets and convenience stores easily, I put in the teapot tea brown rice in Kyoto, the sense of relaxation in the body and can feel a different taste where you can taste. 
So, the day of rest for the time団RAN family, try to make time to enjoy tea is brown rice? 
Kyoto is also home of tea, brown rice and tea to take one of the types are sold. 
If you have a chance to go to Kyoto, I enjoy tea GURINOTABIWOSHITEMIRUNOMO first.