Peacetime Sri Lanka Will Offer Better Returns, Jim Rogers Says 
Aug. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Sri Lankan stocks may offer better
returns as the end of the 26-year civil war frees up government
spending for investments in infrastructure and agriculture,
investor Jim Rogers said. 
The island-nation’s benchmark index has gained 33 percent
in the past three months, the second-best performance worldwide
as the army defeated the Liberation Tamil Tigers of Eelam in
May. The Colombo All-Share Index was the region’s third-worst
performer in the past two years as record spending on defense
strained government finances, and the country sought an
International Monetary Fund loan. 
“When you spend a lot of money on bullets, you don’t get
much return,” Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “If governments can spend money on
infrastructure and developing productive assets, then Sri
Lanka’s strengths will become even stronger given that the war
is over.” 
The Ministry of Finance has said it will focus next year’s
budget on rebuilding areas liberated from the Tamil rebels,
where voting in the first elections in a decade began on Aug. 8. 
“This is a structural change for the country,” said
Singapore-based Samir Mehta, a fund manager at Silver Metis
Capital Management Pte. “If the political process of
integrating the minority Tamils is handled well, the economy
could grow at above 10 percent per annum for the next decade.” 
The nation’s central bank raised its 2009 growth forecast
to as much as 4.5 percent in July from an earlier estimate of
2.5 percent after the separatists’ defeat. Sri Lanka plans to
raise $500 million from overseas investors to help rebuild the
nation, central bank Governor Nivard Cabraal said in an
interview on July 31. 
‘Capital is Ready’ 
“The capital is ready for coming into the country,” Ajit
Gunewardene, deputy chairman of John Keells Holdings Plc, said
in an interview on Aug. 5. “I don’t think there is going to be
a shortage of investors.” 
The nation’s hotels may be fully booked from December to
April as tourists return to the island, Gunewardene said.
Tourist arrivals in Sri Lanka grew 8 percent in June, the first
increase this year, according to the monthly statistical
bulletin by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority. 
John Keells, which gets about 49 percent of its revenue
from transport and tourism, has gained 69 percent in Colombo
trading since the war ended May 16. Other stocks have more than
doubled, including Ceylinco Housing & Real Estate Co. and
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates Plc, leading a rally that has made the
benchmark index Asia’s second-biggest gainer after Indonesia. 
Trading Volumes Jump 
Trading on Sri Lanka’s $7 billion stock exchange, Asia’s
smallest, jumped fivefold in May, and average trading increased
to 751 million rupees ($6.5 million) from 147 million rupees in
April, according to CT Smith Stockbrokers Pvt. in Colombo. 
Still, earnings at companies haven’t kept pace, said Talaal
Maruzook, an analyst at CT Smith. Overseas investors have also
sold shares worth 1.48 billion rupees in the three months ended
July 31, his firm’s report showed. 
“The ending of the war is a catalyst, but development will
take some more time,” Maruzook said in an interview yesterday.
Only about 10 percent of the 235 companies listed on the
exchange are traded regularly, he estimated. “Even though
turnover has picked up, it’s still low and earnings are only
marginally up compared with the sharp gains in stock prices.” 
Mark Mobius, chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd.,
said he’s looking for private equity or strategic investment
opportunities in Sri Lanka as trading volumes remain low. 
“The biggest challenge in the public market is
liquidity,” Mobius, who oversees about $25 billion of emerging
market assets, said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. Templeton Asset Management plans to double its
emerging-market assets within two years, Mobius had said in an
interview on July 29. 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Arush Chopra in Mumbai 
achopra16@bloomberg.net;
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
pthakur@bloomberg.net 
Last Updated: August 10, 2009 20:46 EDT