Here’s the simple pattern of Light Flyweight sweater. There is not too much pattern in this to be honest, the pieces are almost rectangular and the shape is partially created while making the narrow crocheted edges. The flair of this piece comes from the generous dimensions and luxurious material, the sweater is so oversized that you can drape and gather it in multitude of ways. Narrow, too long sleeves balance the outlook. Yarn is lovely laceweight kid mohair-silk blend.
You need: 
4 balls of Rowan Kidsilk Haze 
8 mm knitting needled 
blunt point needle for sewing 
2.5 mm – 3 mm crochet hook
Size and gauge: 
This garment is one size and will fit from s to xl. If you are short ar very tall you might want to adjust the length. The horizontal gauge is about 8-9 sts for 10 cm. More important than the exact gauge (the dimensions are so generous that small fluctuations are totally acceptable) is that all cast ons and cast offs are loose enough. So work your technique with a swatch until you get absolutely no pull for your gauge.
Chart: 
Front and back (identical): 
Cast on 120 sts to 8 mm needles. Be sure that the cast on edge is loose enough. Knit stockinette stitch for 63 cm. On RS knit 40, cast off 40 loosely enough, continue working with remaining 40 sts. 
Right shoulder: On the 1st RS row with 40 sts cast off three sts on the beginning of the row. On the second, third and fourth cast off one st. On the fifth cast off remaining 34 sts.
Left shoulder: 1. WS, purl, all RS knit. 2. WS cast off 3 sts from the beginning of the row, 3., 4. and 5. cast off one sts from the beginning of the row. Next RS cast off remaining 34 sts.
Sleeves: 
Cast on 24 stitches. Knit stockinette stitch. When piece measures 13 cm increase one st on the left side, 26 cm on the right side, 39 cm on the left side, 52 cm on the right side. When the piece measures 65 cm cast off all 28 sts.
Finishing: 
Block or steam the pieces lightly. Sew the shoulder seams from the top using backstitch – all seams are sewn in similar way. Sew the sleeve seams. Measure the sleeve opening from top just in case and pin the side seams together leaving an equal sized opening for the sleeve on the top. Sew the side seams from the top. Now attach the sleeves to the body but turn the sleeve seam on top, continuing the line of the shoulder seam. Sew from top.
Crochet 2 rounds of single crochet stitch on the hem and sleeve openings. Gather the garment lightly while crocheting, don’t try to make a pouch shape, aim for slightly inwards turning hem for slightly softened shape (see the image above to get the idea). Crochet 2 rounds around the neck opening, but now see the diagram and gather the garment in between marks so that the neck opening will be approximately 98 cm altogether (or adjust the size to your taste).
More images in this post and here.