The NFL is launching an estimated $150 million to $200 million campaign with the tagline, “If you want the NFL, go to the NFL.” 
The campaign includes television ads filmed with a Phantom HD digital video camera, which shoots a thousand frames per second and is 10 times slower than the slow-motion video shot by the NFL, the New York Times reports. The ads slow down a single instant of a game and stretch it throughout the entire 30 seconds, to show how football, more than any other sport, happens in a split second, according to the NFL.
By the end of the football season, 12 different ads will be created, each showing a different instant from the sport. The idea is to reach the male 18-35 demo, in the hopes of getting them to watch more games, buy more NFL stuff, play Fantasy Football, and otherwise become more engaged.
The campaign, created by Grey New York - which won the NFL account in June - will also have radio ads running on Westwood One, ads on billboards in NYC’s Times Square and other cities, 
and ads in print publications like USA Today and Sports Illustrated. The television ads will run on the NFL Network, CBS, Fox, NBC, and ESPN.
In related news, NFL players from a number of teams have hit the training fields sporting corporate logos on their practice jerseys. Earlier this summer, the NFL enacted a rule allowing teams to sell sponsorships for the practice jerseys; sponsors can place a logo no larger than 4 1/2 by 3 1/2 inches. The New York Giants inked a 15-year, (estimated) $35 million sponsorship deal with Timex for practice jersey logos and naming rights for the Meadowlands practice facility, now called the Timex Performance Center, writes the New York Daily News.
But the deal has caused a conflict of interest for quarterback Eli Manning, who has a six-figure deal to peddle Citizen watches. Manning has said he will remove his jersey before doing interviews with the press, though a Giants spokesperson says interviews are not an issue, because they take place after players have already changed out of their practice uniforms. The Giants and the Jets are still seeking a sponsor who will kick in $25 million a year to name the new Meadowlands stadium.
The Rams signed American Airlines as sponsor for the practice jerseys, while the Jets and the Bears have hospital deals and the Colts jerseys are being sponsored by an insurance company, according to CNBC. No other player has a conflict of interest so far.