Kobo and Hello Kitty, Hello Kitty shop合WASATTA the traditional crafts of Kyoto and the product is "Hello Kitty workshop" is not only in handling. 
As an exception, the Sanrio online shop is "Kobo Hello Kitty" merchandise is available for purchase, so you can actually shop in Kyoto綾小路, when travel is it out? 
In Kyoto "workshop Hello Kitty" is made of stone decorated with Kitty at the entrance will greet visitors to customers. 
The store is small and the atmosphere of a typical floating around Kyoto. 
The Japanese collaboration with Kitty, Kitty can enjoy the rest of the type not seen before. 
Design is the most powerful Japanese-style design of the unique skills of traditional crafts in Kyoto, a women's business card instead of using "flower cards" can be purchased. 
"Flower cards", "Hello Kitty studio" only in that it can not be purchased. 
The most popular, and online products also sold out, and tote bags also GAMA口. 
Tote bag is made of古布, but you can use without fear of rain since Sunday have been laminated and placed around the difficulty so you do not have to worry about stains. 
Black and red in color, design and popular than古布bellflower. 
"Kobo Hello Kitty" Kitty goods, and many designs unique to Japan's traditional sober one, I feel nostalgic feeling to have. 
Kitty is so popular in foreign countries is also supported by foreign visitors came to Kyoto. 
Business cards and flowers that are favored by women, enjoy the feeling of the season, and the right wave in the summer, is as popular as the winter snow battledore. 
The flowers are not just for business cards as business cards, you can use as a seal and the name stuck important. 
So full of originality, and will stick to conspicuous possessions. 
"Hello Kitty workshop" is based on a design unique to Japan, are many Japanese Kitty, if you have a chance to come to Kyoto, where you visited us. 
The things money can buy mail order, go directly to the store and I still very different. 
Location, bus stop "Ginkakuji way" to walk about 3 minutes, and also a good way to try to stop Ginkakuji incidentally. 
Tourism and the ancient capital of Kyoto, "Kobo Hello Kitty" It's also great fun. 
Souvenir Kyoto Kitty's Taste of Japan is? 
So many goods that have here, especially those who love the kitty, would be a great gift.