* thinkorswim was rated #1 overall online broker, "best for frequent traders," and "best for options traders" in Barron's ranking of online brokers, 3/16/2009; "best software-based online broker and "best for options traders," 3/6/2006 and 3/5/2007. thinkorswim was evaluated versus others in eight total categories, including trade experience/execution, trading technology, usability, range of offerings, research amenities, portfolio analysis & reporting, customer service & access and costs. thinkorswim topped the list in 2006, 2007 and 2009 with the highest weighted-average score and was runner-up in 2008. Barron's is a registered trademark of Dow Jones & Company © 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. Supporting documentation for any claims, comparisons, recommendations, statistics, or other technical data, will be supplied upon request.
* TOS IRAs are restricted margin accounts. Provided your IRA application is approved by thinkorswim, you can trade any complex option strategy you like as long as the resulting position has defined risk. We do not allow for short stock, naked short calls or futures. There are limitations, restrictions, and tax implications in connection with the use of options as an investment strategy in a retirement account such as an IRA. These may include legal and accounting issues, and use of margin and margin payments to cover losses. Complex option strategies including those that are multi-leg strategies involve multiple commission charges and thus the transaction costs of such strategies should be considered when assessing the potential of such a strategy.
1thinkorswim offers Mutual Fund trading through its trading platforms. To view a comprehensive list of Mutual Fund families you can trade at thinkorswim, click here. Although thinkorswim does not impose any additional charges, some funds may attach a sales load, administrative fees or redemption charges which thinkorswim will pass through to our customers. Please consider carefully the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of any mutual fund before investing. These charges, fees, commissions, and fund objectives and trading as well as other very important information are discussed in detail in the fund's prospectus. You should obtain a recent prospectus and read it carefully before investing. The prospectus is a significant resource for information. To obtain this form and to review additional pertinent information, you should locate and visit the appropriate mutual fund family's website. If you need assistance in locating any information about a fund family in which you may be interested in investing, please feel free to contact thinkorswim.
Site Map    
Contact Us    
Security    
License Agreement    
Privacy    
Disclaimers 
toll-free (866) 839-1100 | direct (773) 435-3210 | fax (773) 435-3232 | or Email
Us 
The risk of loss in trading securities, options, futures and forex can be substantial. Customers must consider all
relevant risk factors, including their own personal financial situation, before trading. Options involve risk and
are not suitable for all investors. See the Options Disclosure Document: Characteristics and Risks
of Standardized Options. A copy can be requested via email at support@thinkorswim.com or via mail to 600 W. Chicago Ave., #100, Chicago, IL 60654-2597. Trading foreign
exchange on margin carries a high level of risk, as well as its own unique risk factors. Please read the following
risk disclosure before considering the trading of this product: Forex Risk
Disclosure. thinkorswim is compensated through a portion of the forex dealing spread. Funds deposited into
an account with a broker-dealer for investment in any currency, or which are the proceeds of a currency position, or
any currency in an account with a broker-dealer, are not protected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(SIPC). 
thinkorswim, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of TD AMERITRADE Holding Corporation. 
thinkorswim, Inc. Member SIPC FINRA NFA