Car wallpapers, especially if you are a car aficionado, certainly looks great on your PC. If you are looking for pics to fill that blank desktop, here are some cool car wallpapers.Car wallpapers, especially if you are a car aficionado, certainly looks great on your PC. Car wallpapers are not hard to find since high-resolution and professionally shot images of new car models are being released by car companies as a way to publicize or introduce their new car models to the market. The same is true in the case of the cell phone and gadget industry, wherein any product release is incomplete without some cool pictures. Most of the time, car wallpapers of these luxury cars always surface up over the internet long before even they’re unveiled at a motor show. And, this has turned out to be a very smart and successful technique to increase the level of popularity of your brand.
Looking at the sizzling launches this year, we decided to come up with a roundup of car wallpapers of the super luxury and the not so-super sports cars coming from manufacturers all over the world, European, Asian and American brands. Within this page you will find thousands of images depicting your favorite sports cars. Whether you are looking for cool car pics, or simply looking for pics to fill that blank desktop, there are a lot of free pictures to choose from.
Car Wallpaper 01 - Audi R8
The Audi R8 is a sports car with a longitudinally mounted mid-engine, and uses Audi’s ‘trademark’ quattro permanent four-wheel drive system.[4] It was introduced by the German automaker Audi AG in 2006. The car was exclusively designed, developed, and manufactured by Audi AG’s high performance private subsidiary company, quattro GmbH, and is derived from the Lamborghini Gallardo.[5] The fundamental construction of the R8 is based on the “Audi Space Frame”, and uses an aluminium monocoque which is built around a space frame. The car is built by quattro GmbH in a newly renovated factory at Audi’s ‘aluminium site’ at Neckarsulm in Germany.
Download Car Wallpaper
Car Wallpaper 02 - Acura Advanced Sports Car Concept 
Acura is calling this rakish coupe the Advanced Sports Car Concept, but it’s essentially the replacement for the much-missed NSX. It’s not a direct replacement, however: The engine sits up front, and it’s unlikely the production version will feature the all-aluminum construction of the original. Acura is the luxury vehicle division of Japanese automaker Honda Motor Company. It primarily competes with Buick, Lexus and Infiniti among others in the luxury vehicle segment. Before Acura, exported Japanese automobiles primarily had a reputation for being economical in design and marketed on value instead of luxury.
Car Wallpaper 03 - Ferrari 430 Scuderia
Serving as the successor onto the Challenge Stradale, the 430 Scuderia was unveiled by Michael Schumacher at the 2007 Frankfurt Auto Show. Aimed to compete with cars like the Porsche RS-models and the Lamborghini Gallardo Superleggera, meaning super light weight, it is lighter (by 100 kg/220 lb) and more powerful (515 PS (508 hp/379 kW) at 8500 rpm) than the standard F430. In addition to the weight saving measures, the Scuderia semi-automatic transmission gains improved “Superfast”, known as “Superfast2″, software for faster 60 millisecond shift-times. A new traction control system combines the F1-Trac traction and stability control with the E-Diff electronic differential.
Download Car Wallpaper
Car Wallpaper 04 - Porsche 911 GT2
The Porsche 911 GT2 is a sports car built by the German manufacturer Porsche since 1994. It is based on the 911 Turbo, and retains the turbo, but features numerous upgrades, including a more powerful engine, larger brakes, and stiffer suspension calibration. The GT2 is significantly lighter than the Turbo due to the use of rear-wheel drive instead of all-wheel drive, and the lightening or removal of interior components.
Car Wallpaper 05 -BMW6 Series 
The BMW M6 is a high-performance version of the 6-Series automobile, designed by the motorsport division of the German manufacturer. In 1983 BMW took the M88/3 engine, a modified version of the M88/1 from the BMW M1 and put it in the E24 chassis of the BMW 6-Series, creating the M635CSi (called “M6″ in North America). The “M6″ was critically acclaimed throughout its lifespan for its elegant, aggressive “shark-nose” styling, its well-appointed luxury features, and its quick performance. An M6 can be distinguished from other E24 models by a larger air dam, M badges on the grille and back, and a slightly larger front brakes.
Car Wallpaper 06 - Mercedes-Benz SLR Stirling Moss 
With the SLR Stirling Moss Mercedes-Benz and McLaren are adding the crowning glory to the model family of their highly successful SLR super sports car with a new, uncompromisingly spectacular car. There is neither a roof nor a windscreen to separate the driver and passenger from the outside world; they enjoy unadulterated high-speed excitement with all the attributes of a speedster. The new Mercedes-Benz SLR Stirling Moss is also characterized by the most sophisticated technology and a breathtaking design.
Car Wallpaper 07 - Alfa Romeo 8C Spider
Debuting at Geneva showroom is the captivating Alfa 8C Spider. Like the Alfa 8C Competizione, the Gran Turismo which received resounding global praise; the new “discovery” will be produced in a limited edition run of 500. Elaborated by the Centro Stile Alfa Romeo, the new car re-affirms the brand’s excellence in this sector, as shown by some Spider’s being regarded among the most beautiful cars in global automotive history. Cars such as the Giulietta Spider from the 50’s or the legendary Duetto made famous by “The Graduate” from 1967 with a young Dustin Hoffman. Today, it’s the Alfa 8C Spider’s turn to take centre stage and project into the future the values of technology and emotion which belong to the Alfa Romeo legacy.
Download Car Wallpaper
Car Wallpaper 08 - Lamborghini Gallardo LP560-4 Coupe
As the successor to the best-selling Lamborghini of all time, the new LP560-4 Spyder combines the Coupe’s design, performance and handling characteristics with the open-air pleasure only a soft top super sports car can deliver.The car delivers 560 horsepower at 8,000 rpm via a 5.2-liter V10 engine. The car is capable of hitting 62 mph in an amazing 3.7 seconds. The sprint to twice that speed — 124 mph — takes just 11.8 seconds.The 560 portion of the car’s name reflects its horsepower, while the “4″ designation indicates all-wheel-drive. The “4″ was likely added to the name in anticipation of the forthcoming rear-wheel-drive variant, which will likely end in “2.”
Download car wallpaper
Car Wallpaper 09 - 2010 Nissan 370Z Roadster
This seductively styled Z Roadster offers everything the hardtop Z Coupe does – and more. As in more classic open-air sports car driving excitement. More sun, moon and stars. And more refinement than any Z® convertible that has ever come before – including a standard automatic latching power top and Nissan Intelligent Key™. Also offered are an array of technology and convenience features, including the first-ever Z Roadster-available heating and cooling ventilated net seats, Bluetooth Hands-free Phone System, satellite radio and advanced Nissan Navigation System.
Car Wallpaper 10 - 2010 JAGUAR XJ
Sleek, sporting and sophisticated, the all-new Jaguar XJ brings a daring new spirit to automotive luxury. It offers a seductive mix of striking design, breathtaking performance and engineering without compromise.
The new Jaguar XJ is the epitome of fluid, contemporary automotive style. The elongated teardrop shape of the side windows establishes the car’s silhouette and lies at the heart of its flowing design. And the new Jaguar XJ doesn’t just look streamlined: it shares a drag coefficient of 0.29 with the Jaguar XF saloon, making them the most aerodynamic Jaguars ever.
Car Wallpaper 11 - Mazda MX-5 Superlight
The Mazda MX-5 Superlight version, a show car capturing the pure essence of the world’s most popular roadster, will see its world premiere at the 63rd Frankfurt Motor Show, which will be held from September 15 through 27, 2009. The Mazda MX-5 is the best-selling two-seat sports car in the world. At Frankfurt , Mazda will present a new take on its affordable roadster with an all-new show car, the Mazda MX-5 Superlight version, designed at Mazda’s studio in Frankfurt , Germany . A pure show car, it takes the lightweight technology that Mazda is famous for to a new level, improving driving performance, handling, fuel economy and CO 2 emissions. This is combined with a radical exterior design requiring no windshield, and sporty chassis settings for pure roadster driving fun.