54-year-old Kix Brooks and 56-year-old Ronnie Dunn, the most popular music duo stunned their lovers as they announced to break up after a Farewell Tour next year.....54-year-old Kix Brooks and 56-year-old Ronnie Dunn, the most popular music duo stunned their lovers as they announced to break up after a Farewell Tour next year. The 20 years long Combined-Success story comes to an end.
On Monday, the news struck the web and the media that country’s most loved and popular duo Brooks & Dunn who have produced record music hits for 20 long years, have finally decided to call it a day.
Leon Eric “Kix” Brooks III was born May 12, 1955, in Shreveport, La. Whereas Ronnie Gene Dunn was born June 1, 1953, in Coleman, Texas. The two extremely talented future stars were put together in 1990 through Tim DuBois of Arista Records.
“Brand New Man” was the duo’s first single which was rated No. 1 in 1991. Then it was on and ‘My Next Broken Heart’, ‘Neon Moon’ and ‘Boot Scootin’ Boogie’ proved to be the hottest hits of time. More than 6 million copies of only Brand New Man have been sold so far. “She Used to Be Mine,” “That Ain’t No Way to Go,” “She’s Not the Cheatin’Kind”, “little Miss Honky Tonk” or “You’re Gonna Miss Me When I’m Gone” are all on their credit.
Dunn is doing as Vocalist while Brooks plays Guitar in the combined effort. Dunn also works the stage. The pair has also won the CMA entertainer of the year trophy in 1996 for their remarkable services. It’s on the records that “My Maria” remained for consecutively tree weeks at No.1, in 1996 which was a remix actually.
The duo gave the following statement,
“After 20 years of making music and riding this trail together, we have agreed as a duo that it’s time call it a day. This ride has been everything and more than we could ever have dreamed…. We owe it all to you, the fans. If you hear rumors, don’t believe them, it’s just time.”
Now the dates of their Farewell Tour next are awaited to be finalized which will be The Last Rodeo Tour.
Brooks And Dunn Break Up
Related posts:Brooks Perlin Brooks Perlin is the son of a known businessman...Brad and Angelina Break Up The rumors about Brad and Angelina break up are...Conway Twitty Conway Twitty was one of the United States most...