Is Lady Gaga a Hermaphrodite or a Man? New gossip prevails on the web whether what happened to her hermaphrodite ‘Proof Picture’ anyway. Not very far ago, the web pages were filled.....Is Lady Gaga a Hermaphrodite or a Man? New gossip prevails on the web whether what happened to her hermaphrodite ‘Proof Picture’ anyway. Not very far ago, the web pages were filled with Lady Gaga’s pictures and articles all focusing on only one thing; Lady Gaga had a Cock! And to prove this, a particular picture was highlighted to show the ‘thing’ by or from a maximum possible clear angle.
Then there were few statements attributed to Lady Gaga, clearly claiming that she has admitted: “Yes, I was born as Hermaphrodite and yes, I have a penis too, very small though. And that I was born with both male and female genitals.”
So was it all only disinformation? Was it an attempt to demoralize someone? On the other hand, was it just mockery of the situation? Shall we believe that a hermaphrodite picture was actually a man’s picture?
Lady Gaga’s real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta and a lot has been said about her in recent past. The internet is a place where rumors have more weight than the real news and the speculations are always the offspring of these rumors. But in Lady’s case, the rumor has got some weight, a proof, the Glastonbury “Money Honey” video.
Iin a particular scene where she is wearing something like mini dress which helped the “Evil Genius” to advocate his/her point more strongly, there was some bulging object down there that caught the eyes of viewers especially when the rumor surfaced afterwards. Is it not enough proof? Have we really been praising the King of the Charts and not the Queen?
However, whatever was shown or was tried to be shown, was all imagination, as stated by Lady Gaga’s Manager.
Lady Gaga
Related posts:Lady Gaga Hermaphrodite Picture The “Lady Gaga hermaphrodite picture” shakes the web. The...LenDale White Weight Loss Tennessee Titans have got a new LenDale White, now...Steve Neild ‘Jon & Kate Plus 8′ star Kate Gosselin is...