The Gators’ mid-blocker, former University of Florida Volleyball player, Kari Klinkenborg is 6’0” tall sweet Brown Girl with beautiful Hazel Ethnicity eyes.....The Gators’ mid-blocker, former University of Florida Volleyball player, Kari Klinkenborg is 6’0” tall sweet Brown Girl with beautiful Hazel Ethnicity eyes who is also a known model.
Well if you are blessed with 6 feet Height, only 137 lbs in weight, Brown Long Hair and extremely attractive and ideal measurements of 34-25-36 and an athletic body plus you are willing to become a model, I do not see any hurdle coming your way or as to why your dreams may not come true?
Kari was first motivated due to one of her closest friend, who always kept saying to her that c’mon Kari, you’ve got to be a model, you must do modeling. But she also admits that she has been kind linger-on or delaying type of person so she pended it till one day, when she finally met an agent recommended by the same friend.
‘Maximum Talent Agency, Denver’ proved her first step. Initially, she started with booking jobs. It was not a very high paid job yet she thought it’s not bad to start with as a side business. So she carried on with it. She did High-end Fashion Shows, Sports Authority catalogs, T-Shirt & Jeans Ads. She was doing well with big names like Cavali, Nike or Under Armour etc when she had to back off due to the tight schedule of her primary love, Volleyball.
The management at Gators is known to be very strict so Kari had to sacrifice her hobby over her sports due to practice and traveling. Still she did model for magazines like September Self Magazine, Campus Girls USA Cover-girl, Yoga Magazine etc. She also had a time when she was from both her sports as well as hobby and it was when she was out of team due to an ankle injury. And pretty strange but true that only her close most friends knew her as a model until they saw her on various magazines.
Here are the pictures of Kari Klinkenborg.
Kari Klinkenborg
Kari Klinkenborg
Related posts:Hipster Grifter Kari Ferrell, the most wanted fugitive by Salt Lake...Ben Brown Baton Rouge The death of 28-year-old Ben Brown full name Benjamin...