Letter
Nature Biotechnology Published online: 10 August 2009 | doi:10.1038/nbt.1561Single-molecule sequencing of an individual human genomeDmitry Pushkarev1,2,
Norma F Neff1,2
&
Stephen R Quake1
AbstractRecent advances in high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies have enabled order-of-magnitude improvements in both cost and throughput. Here we report the use of single-molecule methods to sequence an individual human genome. We aligned billions of 24- to 70-bp reads (32 bp average) to 90% of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) reference genome, with 28 average coverage. Our results were obtained on one sequencing instrument by a single operator with four data collection runs. Single-molecule sequencing enabled analysis of human genomic information without the need for cloning, amplification or ligation. We determined 2.8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a false-positive rate of less than 1% as validated by Sanger sequencing and 99.8% concordance with SNP genotyping arrays. We identified 752 regions of copy number variation by analyzing coverage depth alone and validated 27 of these using digital PCR. This milestone should allow widespread application of genome sequencing to many aspects of genetics and human health, including personal genomics.
IntroductionThere is broad interest in using human genome sequencing to better understand human genetic variation and genome-related diseases, such as cancer, and ultimately to guide discoveries and decisions about the health of individuals. Since the publication of the first rough draft consensus human genomes1, 2, there have been several reports of individual human genome sequences3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Even using current next-generation technologies, however, sequencing of a human genome has required at least 35–40 machine runs with many instruments operating in parallel. Reagent costs are substantial, estimated at $250,000–$500,000 per genome (Supplementary Table 1). Here we demonstrate that genome science is rapidly advancing to the point where individual instruments can achieve throughput that just a few years ago required the facilities of large genome centers.Since the first demonstration of single-molecule sequencing in 2003 (ref. 10), there has been rapid progress in the field. Published results of various forms of single-molecule sequencing11, 12, 13 have shown improvements in throughput of about tenfold per year over the last few years, and no fundamental limits have yet been reached (Supplementary Fig. 1 and Supplementary Table 2). Single-molecule sequencing is an attractive approach due to its simplicity and the lack of cloning or amplification in sample preparation. High densities of unamplified single molecules on a surface can be extended asynchronously, thereby allowing substantial flexibility in the kinetics of sequencing chemistry. Previous reports of single-molecule sequencing have been proofs of principle11, 12, 13, and their sequencing throughput has not been competitive with alternative approaches. Generally, read lengths have been relatively short and error rates have been dominated by deletions; it has not been clear whether the resulting sequence quality is suitable for human genome sequencing applications.The Heliscope Single Molecule Sequencer (Helicos Biosciences) is the first commercial release of a single-molecule sequencing instrument. It allows one to follow 1 billion individual molecules as they are sequenced over the course of a week—a throughput that is practical for human genome sequencing. There have been several technical improvements to the platform since the reported sequencing of a viral genome12, including more than a 1,000-fold improvement in parallelism, a new generation of sequencing reagents that allows digital measurement of homopolymer sequences, and a new software algorithm, IndexDP, for performing alignments to the entire human genome.We used two of the instrument's 50 flow-cell channels to resequence the Staphylococcus aureus genome as a calibration of sequencer performance. About nine million reads per channel were uniquely aligned to the reference genome (Supplementary Figs. 2 and 3), and from this data we were able to determine the raw sequencing error rates. Errors in the raw reads were dominated by deletions (2%), followed by insertions (1.2%) and substitutions (0.38%). Mapping to the reference genome resulted in complete genome coverage and the identification of three SNPs (Supplementary Table 3).We evaluated the performance of the Heliscope for human genome sequencing by determining the genome sequence of a male of European descent (hereafter referred to as Patient Zero or P0). We generated at least 6 human genome coverage of sequence per week-long run. Each full run consisted of 50 channels distributed across two flow cells. We combined data from four instrument runs, during which 172 of the 200 channels were loaded with P0 genomic DNA. Sequence data were mapped to the NCBI 36 reference human genome (hg18) using the open-source aligner IndexDP; 63% of the raw reads were aligned (Fig. 1a), yielding a total useful coverage of 28.
(a) Read length distributions for raw reads (blue) and uniquely aligned reads (red) from Helicos single-molecule sequencing of the genome of Patient Zero (P0). Filtered reads tend to be shorter because a larger proportion of the long reads are instrument artifacts related to the base addition order. (b) Coverage depth for sequence data of the P0 genome, computed over repeat masked regions (ENSEMBL, blue) compared to theoretical Poisson limit (red). (c) Error rate as a function of sequence coverage depth. Above 30 coverage, sampling noise from the limited number of BeadArray results begins to dominate the error rate, and error rate measurements are not accurate. Error rates are defined as concordance with independent measurement of SNPs using the Illumina Human610-Quad SNP BeadArray (see Online Methods for details). (d) Quality score (QS) tradeoffs between sensitivity and accuracy. High sensitivity is obtained by using a QS threshold of 0, which results in calls for all comparison BeadArray locations, with an accuracy of 98.3%. Raising the QS threshold to 1 results in 97% of comparison BeadArray locations being called, thereby lowering the sensitivity but increasing the accuracy of those calls to 99.2%. Numbers next to each data point indicate accuracy (percentages) and cutoff score (in brackets).Full size image 
(57 KB)
IndexDP is designed to perform efficiently in the presence of deletion errors by allowing insertions or deletions in the seeds, whereas software designed for other short-read technologies (such as ELAND7, MAQ14 and SHRiMP15) constructs seeds with the assumption that the dominant errors are substitutions. Although we did not directly compare IndexDP to other short-read mappers, it is expected to perform better on data generated by the Heliscope Single Molecule Sequencer. Approximately 90% of the reference genome sequence was covered with uniquely mapped reads (2.5 GB out of 2.77 GB). The distribution of coverage depth was close to a Poisson distribution (Fig. 1b).Because IndexDP does not call variant bases and because existing variant callers have been designed specifically for other sequencing platforms, we developed an algorithm to perform variant base-calling on the P0 genome. This algorithm, called UMKA, uses alignment quality scores, accounts for the specific sequencing error profile introduced by the Heliscope and a naive prior probability distribution about the distribution of variation in the human genome. UMKA selects the most probable diploid base call for each position in the genome and also returns a PHRED-like quality score that is the absolute value of the logarithm of the expected error probability at that location. As the naive priors do not use information from the NCBI SNP database (dbSNP) or other catalogs of human variation, we were able to test the performance of UMKA and the quality of the genome assembly by comparing our sequence data to independent experimental measurements at sites of known variation and have confidence in the extrapolation of the results.One important application of human genome resequencing is to measure the genotype of an individual at sites of known variation. This allows one to determine whether the individual is carrying an allele for a genetic disorder, to determine ancestry or to profile SNPs for pharmacogenomic purposes. We analyzed the accuracy of UMKA's base calling in this context by comparing the sequence data to independent measurements using the Illumina Human610-Quad SNP BeadArray. We used UMKA to call SNPs in the P0 genome and analyzed the results as a function of both coverage (Fig. 1c) and quality score (Fig. 1d). The base-calling error rate is defined as the fraction of positions that are not in concordance with variant calls made using the BeadArray (Online Methods). As the quality threshold was varied, we found that UMKA was able to call 100% of locations in the comparison pool with 98.3% accuracy and 97% of SNPs with 99.0% accuracy. This is slightly better than the results of the leukemia tumor genome, which found all high-quality SNPs in a reference pool with 94% accuracy5, and is similar to results obtained for the Asian6, 8, 9 and Yoruban7 genomes.Whole-genome data are also used to discover new sources of genetic and phenotypic variation. These data are useful in association studies to discover disease alleles and also in efforts to understand the fundamental distribution of human variation. We analyzed the ability of UMKA to discover novel variation by comparing SNPs in the P0 genome to those in the dbSNP database (build 129). Previous individual human genome sequencing studies have found that dbSNP contains validated entries for >70% of the SNPs in an individual genome3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Similarly, we found that 76% of SNPs in the P0 genome are listed in dbSNP as validated (Fig. 2a). As annotated SNPs are relatively rare (occurring at the part-per-thousand level), the chances that a SNP called in the P0 genome will be both a false positive and also annotated as validated in dbSNP are very low. Therefore, the high proportion of annotated SNPs in P0 suggests a low false-positive rate in SNP discovery.
(a) SNP distribution in the P0 genome as a function of quality score. Putative SNPs are 'validated' or 'nonvalidated' if they are annotated as such in dbSNP. Putative SNPs not found in dbSNP are 'novel'. SNPs with larger quality scores are called with higher confidence. A substantial decrease in the proportion of validated SNPs is seen as the quality score drops below 2.8, suggesting that 2.8 is a reasonable threshold for identifying high quality SNPs. (b) Distribution of high-quality SNP calls (quality score >2.8) for the P0 human genome. Validated, nonvalidated and novel SNPs are defined as in a. (c) Overlap in SNP locations between the genomes of P0, James Watson and Craig Venter (in thousands). In this figure the quality-score cutoff was moved to the second plateau in a (QS >1.9), increasing the sensitivity and resulting in a total of 3,263,470 SNPs in the P0 genome. This is due to a further 389,736 novel SNPs, 18,495 unvalidated SNPs and 49,768 validated SNPs. The ratio of validated to novel SNPs can be used to estimate that this improvement in sensitivity comes at a cost of an increased overall false-positive rate (from 1% to 10%). Even with this less restrictive cutoff, the SNP proportions shared with Venter and Watson remain consistent.Full size image 
(40 KB)
By examining the proportion of P0 SNPs validated in dbSNP as a function of quality score, we found that it stays relatively constant over a large range of quality scores, and then declines substantially as the quality score falls below 2.8 (Fig. 2b). We interpret this as a rapid increase in false-positive SNP calling below that threshold. At a quality score threshold of 2.8, there are 2,805,471 SNPs. The concordance of this set with the BeadArray data is 99.8%, and comparison of the overlap leads to an estimated 4.3% false-negative rate (Online Methods). We randomly selected 100 SNPs with a quality score >2.8 and resequenced them with Sanger sequencing. All of them agreed with the UMKA prediction, thus establishing the false-positive rate as being <1%. The choice of a quality-score cutoff is somewhat arbitrary, and, even at a less stringent threshold of 1.9, the number of SNPs increases to 3,263,470 and there remains substantial agreement in SNP overlap between the P0 genome and those of other males of European descent such as Craig Venter1 and James Watson4 (Fig. 2c).Structural variation is an important source of variation in the human genome, and it appears to be dominated by copy number variation (CNV)6. A few studies have predicted CNV using small datasets of high-throughput sequencing coverage16, 17, but thus far their application to whole human genomes has had limited sensitivity4, 18, finding many fewer copy number variants than other approaches6. We used a binning strategy to determine the density of reads over the genome, from which we were able to make direct estimates of CNV at a resolution of 1 kb (Fig. 3). We did not attempt to detect small indels by this method, although it should be possible in principle. CNV detection using this method is, of course, only possible in regions of the reference genome where reads can be uniquely aligned. We detected 752 regions of CNV totaling 16 MB, 54% of which were previously annotated in the Database of Genomic Variants19. We used digital PCR20 to independently validate 27 CNV regions (selected to include 0, 0.5, 2 copy number variants and both novel and previously annotated regions), 25 of which had quantitative agreement with the predicted CNV (Supplementary Table 4).
The individual genome data reported here and previously3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 represent important technological advances but are incomplete approximations for various reasons. First, there is both systematic and biological variation of the genome across tissue types within an individual. Post-mitotic cells suffer gradual disregulation of the genome at rates that vary according to tissue type21, and cells of the immune system reprogram their genomes in specific ways22. Second, genome coverage is not complete, and highly repetitive regions are generally not represented. Third, haplotype phasing is difficult to measure and has limited analysis5, 6. Fourth, structural variation is not determined exhaustively, and there is little independent confirmation. In some cases paired-end reads have been used to show that individual structural variation may be predominantly deletions of various sizes6, 7, 8, 9, but verification and estimates of completeness are lacking. Fifth, when SNPs are measured independently, there are nonzero false-positive and false-negative rates. None of the published individual genomes3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 has claimed exhaustive SNP determination or even 100% concordance with independent SNP genotyping; this is due to a trade-off between cost, total coverage and desired accuracy in variant base-calling. We expect that such trade-offs will continue to be important and will strongly depend on the biological questions being asked. For example, when novel SNP discovery is required, it may be useful to accept a lower accuracy in order to sequence more individuals.More generally, genomes sequenced using short-read technologies provide a wealth of knowledge about the geography of the genome and how that geography varies between individuals. Currently, only a tiny fraction of the data can be interpreted in the context of human traits, but in principle such data could be generated for virtually any known trait and exploited in personalized medicine. Even the approximate measurements of structural variation available today (such as the copy number variants described here) are opening new avenues of genomic research and changing our understanding of human variation. That such measurements can now be performed in virtually any lab using a single commercial instrument serves to democratize access to the fruits of the genome revolution and may enable rapid and widespread adoption of individual genome sequencing in various scientific and medical contexts.