By Brian X. Chen 
April 24, 2009  | 
5:53 pm  | 
Categories: Phones 
Last night I lost something very dear to me. While I was making my bed, my comforter bumped over a glass containing a tiny amount of water, which seeped right into my iPhone’s weak spot — the dock connector. The screen turned white followed by a series of fluorescent colors, as if my iPhone were seeing its life flash before its eyes. Then it shut off and wouldn’t turn on again. Just a year and a half old, my iPhone was dead.
I began treading through the five stages of loss and grief. First, I was in Denial that the damn thing was borked. I quickly immersed the phone in a container of dry rice — a moisture-pulling method many nerds preach about when it comes to reviving soaked electronics — and in the morning I checked to see if my poor iPhone would show any signs of life. No dice.
Then I succumbed to Anger. I cursed at the handset, shaking it accusingly as if it had purposely swallowed the deadly H2O to commit suicide. “Work, dammit, work!” I shouted.
After that failed, I slipped into Bargaining. “If only I owned a longer night stand so the water wouldn’t have reached the phone,” I thought. “Or if only it were wearing protection.”
I quickly sank into Depression and self-pity. “What lousy timing,” I complained to Wired.com science editor Betsy Mason. “I’m flying to New York next week for business, and right now would be an incredibly stupid time to buy a new iPhone since the third-gen is probably coming out in two months. My life is a greek tragedy.”
“Stop whining,” she replied. “It’s just a phone.”
“It’s not just a phone!” I cried. “It’s an iPod, a phone and an internet mobile communicator. It was my life in my pocket!”
“Oh, shut up.”
Hours later, I circled around to Acceptance and started thinking of ways to move on. I reached out to my Twitter followers asking if anyone had a spare iPhone lying around. Fortunately Jason Snell, my former editor in chief at Macworld, was able to loan me an iPhone for a few days until I find a permanent solution.
And now that I’m done mourning, I’m reaching out to Wired.com readers so we can all learn something from my loss. What would you do with a hydro-murdered iPhone? I’m thinking selling it through the e-junk trader Gazelle is an option, though it won’t earn me much. Add your suggestions in the comments below.
Or, if you’re feeling super optimistic, feel free to post any kooky methods you used to revive your soaked iPhones, and I might consider trying it and documenting my experience. I’ll leave mine buried in rice for a few more days, but I’m not going to get my hopes up.
Photo: Brian X. Chen/Wired.com