4 ℃ ring jewelry is a popular brand in the country. 
思I浮KABEMASU the foreign brands such as Cartier and Tiffany's ring and asked, domestic brands are also popular 4 ℃ MOTOっ! 
Reading the "YONDOSHI". 
Jewelry is a popular brand among young women. 
4 ℃ are speaking of marriage, 4 ℃ and engage in marriage there are two types of rings. 
At 4 ℃ with the engagement ring if the design features a sophisticated yet simple. 
Some were silver, gold and rich variety increased. 
And some new models every year, in 2009 there have been limited and a bouquet motif. 
And 4 ℃ with a choice of sites for the engagement ring for men carefully, and that price and choose to focus on the basic knowledge of the engagement ring from the beginning, you can learn more. 
Whether there is any ring, and whether she is fit what you all know online. 
When you are ready, your purchase is needed. 
Because the online lessons, should not be confused and go to the store. 
We can also design online marriage rings, I might be wise to check the Internet to some extent. 
4 ℃ at the official site of so far are fine, and you can buy with confidence in your first time here, nice service and lots of bridal fairs. 
Bridal Fair in this way is the maintenance and upgrade services for marking and a remake of Diamond Jewelry Box, and the ring and tiara charm is said to have been happy to give visitors one called something four other. 
The good thing about this brand, it will be done properly to choose from after-care. 
直SHITAI when the size of purchase, if you re-size the design characteristics of the stone material. 
There are not re-design the size, I think I will accept good advice. 
Where to buy a different course, I'm happy we can go to any shop in the maintenance of the same brand. 
The handle is 4 ℃, and back to the ring and other jewelry, original back another season is back and all of the basic design of the course time. 
You'll always see only a very attractive design based on simple BURANDORASHII also point back to the same jewelry. 
And besides all the purse back.