The Gone but Never Forgotten Jil Sander Returns with Her First Uniqlo Collection
While Raf Simons is doing a fantastic job designing the Jil Sander label, it’s hard to not to feel a pang for the woman who established it in the first place. (That’s one of her androgynous, athletic and absolutely chic pantsuits from Vogue January 1998, above left.) Well, rejoice! She’s back. Chances are you know this already, of course, because her +J collection for Uniqlo has attracted the kind of frenzied expectation that is currently surpassed only by the hordes of people who descended on New York last week in the hope they could be extras on the next Sex and the City movie. OK, I’m exaggerating; it’s not quite that feverish. But it’s not every day a beloved designer whose clothes have been barely available this past decade stages a comeback. And a pretty convincing one at that.
So, how does +J look? Well, there are certainly plenty of those Jil Sander–isms: masculine shirts with tiny, crisp collars; cuffed flannel pants; blazers with collar straps so they can be worn snugly buttoned up; and coats—many, many coats, something she was always so brilliant at—like those with button tab waists, or militaryesque double-breasted numbers. The twist is that Sander has also included teeny-tiny cotton skirts, and legging-pants to keep the look younger, sportier, less precious. The palette, too, is totally Jil: gray, black, khaki, with the occasional splash of purple or pink.
What is different from the old days is that the fabrics are not of the superduper cashmere or exquisite silk or even futuristic technofabric varieties, but workaday cotton, wool, nylon. Still, for the kind of precision that Sander’s eye can bring to streamlined urban style, that’s a small price to pay. (Literally; remember, this is Uniqlo, and even though the prices haven’t been finalized yet, you should be able to get an entire outfit for what would in the past have bought you a sleeve from her eponymous label.) Anyway, I guess it’s an accurate reflection of the times: She used to do staples that were luxe, and now it’s staples for a price. So you can get a head start on what to buy when the clothes hit the store (hmm . . . something else To Be Confirmed; October is all Uniqlo wants to say), Vogue’s Virginia Smith, Filipa Fino, and Meredith Melling Burke give you the lowdown on their favorites from the collection. . . .
—Mark Holgate