At present, nothing to feel people look at the men wear jewelry, it is also obvious. 
Without the presence of NAGI Gabor, still "Accessories are the women" might have been, and will not sell the course. 
Silver accessories are often the motif of a skull and cross-hard, rock-and Gothic Lolita is a girl to wear and accessories of choice for these GOTSU. 
The common impression is that cool with cool accessories Gabor is a popular brand in the youth center, but is known to be a very expensive price. 
In America even the gold, the accessories are worth being called a buy unless you know, "Gabor accessories are guaranteed for life. If you fix the broken, to make the new直RANAKERE" I like the concept. 
Gabor itself has already left this world 45 are in the age of 14 years to learn from the precious metals processing, have been workmanlike speech after strenuous efforts. 
The design is also a skull and cross, had a strong influence from his father was a veterinarian and scientist "animal" as many of the motifs. 
勤SHIMI KOKURESHON design and the design of personal time, ideas such as the environment and nature as he is where he comes from. 
Also, some humorous and some were laughing in the face of the skull of a hard material, also has the same brightness and full lock to live positively with unconventional energy. 
Continue driving in just a matter of pure, his mind full of hope that happiness and satisfaction of customers through their work and accessories are just really great. 
These accessories are not swept away by time, all the time maintaining the value may be a matter of course. 
Gabor accessories on the internet that is "authorized online dealers" are selling. 
Gabor will also be hard to make a fake, it is best to buy in regular stores, too. 
The Gob Inc USA regular dealers, "the official dealer network," deed, "the regular certificate store" should be present. 
Also, if you shop well, "representing specific commerce law" or "the local store address, phone number" will be properly represented. 
The product is like and will come with a certificate serial number, please buy us a really neat store.