Provoking both the surprise and ire of many Mexicans was a study published in early 2009 by the United States Joint Forces Command, which grouped Mexico with Pakistan as “two large and important states [that] bear consideration for a rapid and sudden collapse.”
Since that report, the Mexican government has conceded there are in fact wide swaths of the country — primarily along the Pacific coast and Northern border — which now exist outside of Mexico’s rule of law. From a state-based understanding of governance, these territories are anarchic, but they are clearly not without order. Theirs is an order manifested by the extreme wealth and violence of the drug trade.
In Entropy and Art, Rudolph Arnheim wrote, “A revolution must aim at the destruction of the given order and will succeed only by asserting an order of its own.”
Accordingly, in Artemio’s mandala works, we find a distilled mirror image of an apolitical revolution already underway, based on an order imposed by violence and an apathetic public’s apparent willingness to be consumed and dazzled by it. Guns, grenades, bombs, and machetes assemble themselves according to the same laws that govern the perfect and infinitely variable crystalline structures of snowflakes.
In this way, Artemio's choice of Gesamtkunstwerk — the universal artwork — as a title for his exhibition represents a tacit, tragic acknowledgment. When German composer Richard Wagner first popularized the term, he used it to describe a new form of performance that would subsume all of the arts. However, in the context of Artemio’s exhibition, Gesamtkunstwerk instills in the art a more sinister undertone: the idea that the order reflected by his mandalas is already an inescapable — and perhaps natural — totality.
— Brett W. Schultz
A principios del 2009, la sorpresa y la ira de muchos mexicanos fue provocada por un estudio publicado por el Comando de las Fuerzas Conjuntas de Estados Unidos en el que agrupaba a México y Paquistán como “dos grandes e importantes estados considerados como lugares de rápido y repentino colapso.”
A partir de ese informe, el gobierno mexicano aceptó que de hecho, hay grandes áreas del país — sobre todo a lo largo de la Costa del Pacífico y la frontera norte — que existen fuera del Estado de Derecho de México. Según el estado del gobierno, estos territorios son anárquicos, pero no están necesariamente sin algún tipo de orden. Este orden es manifestado por la abundancia y la violencia extrema del comercio de las drogas.
En el libro Entropía y Arte, Rudolph Arnheim decalara que “una revolución debe tener como objetivo la destrucción de una orden y tendrá éxito solamente afirmando un orden propio.”
Por consiguiente, en las mandalas de Artemio, encontramos el reflejo destilado de una revolución apolítica que se aproxima, basada en una orden impuesta por violencia y un público apático que aparenta interés por consumir y ser deslumbrado por esta. Los armas, granadas, bombas y machetes parecen auto-ensamblados de acuerdo a las mismas leyes que gobiernan las estructuras cristalinas perfectas e infinitamente variables de los copos de nieve.
De esta manera, la decisión de Artemio por titular su exposición Gesamtkunstwerk — la obra de arte universal — representa un reconocimiento tácito y trágico. Cuando el compositor alemán Richard Wagner primero popularizó el término, lo utilizó para describir una nueva forma de funcionamiento que incluiría todo tipo de arte. Sin embargo, en el contexto de la exposición de Artemio, Gesamtkunstwerk inculca en el arte una tono sútil más siniestro: la idea que el orden reflejado por sus mandalas es ya una totalidad ineludible — y quizá natural —.
— Brett W. Schultz