CHOPARD is well known as a watch and jewelry brands. 
Happy to watch sports, Strada, and include the Mille Miglia. 
The number of jewelry, including watches CHOPARD are a few of a long and sophisticated technology that is supported by celebrities from around the world. 
CHOPARD the family for generations born in Switzerland has a watch maker. 
I have a studio in the Jura region of Switzerland. 
Among the clock "TONO" is known only in the world watches with automatic movement was in the form of a case with micro-rotor. 
Trophies will be awarded to the winner MOARI The Official Partner of the Cannes Film Festival is also the work of CHOPARD. 
I just set one work inspired the world. 
The best Christmas present you and Valentine, and a good number of accessories for men and women learn. 
We may not buy a lot and do not have a degree just so very expensive. 
I think that is definitely pleasing to women but if present. 
Sports is happy to have a distinctive dial and diamond motifs. 
We pretty much get the impression that vibrate with each movement motifs. 
Type is the woman in the leather band with a motif that I think most of the recommended dish. 
The clover motif sold in limited edition to get, especially in difficult conditions is scarce. 
La Strada is a very popular watch is paved with diamond design on each side, the side which features a square dial. 
3-10 as the price is rather high, so 240 would be about 10,000. 
I can suggest a style of celebrities if you have one. 
The design CHOPARD among 30 adults and are often used for women over generations. 
If you want to create a women's watch is perfect for adults. 
Mille Miglia watches are for men. 
I think the design tends to be somewhere floating in the dignity and yet not emphasize the presence of the second design. 
CHOPARD Mille Miglia 1000 World Limited was sold in 2001 this is scarce in good condition. 
Grand TOURIZUMO will be especially popular. 
Both 3-10 190 has been sold in less than about 10,000. 
The purveyor of the celebrity brand items you want to do. 
A treat for themselves, and color it with the gift of choice.