Before looking in more detail at what these vendors have been doing recently in the 40/100G area, it’s worth noting some of the technical and other issues and questions that are helping to frame this commercial activity.
40 or 100G? 
40G is beginning to spread into the wider network, but 100G is still being developed. A question is whether 40G will become no more than a stopgap until 100G becomes commercially available in standardized form.
Vendors almost inevitably disagree on the relative status of the two technologies. 
Tellabs Inc. (Nasdaq: TLAB; Frankfurt: BTLA), for example, has argued that, as 100G has some way to go before it will be properly commercialized (maybe in a couple of years or so), this leaves a considerable window of opportunity for 40G. It is a good solution and will gain considerable momentum, and so will be around for a long time. Further, Tellabs’ systems will allow 40G and 100G to coexist, so that customers will have a migration path. Ciena, on the other hand, has been more skeptical, saying that it is likely that 40G will be deployed only in limited areas of network capacity until 100G is commercially available.
NTT America Inc. , for example, has no plans to engage with 40G equipment beyond data center applications of 40G Ethernet, but does expect to deploy 100G Ethernet extensively when 100G Ethernet interfaces become available across the router and switch platforms in 2010.
"100G Ethernet, when available, will provide an upgrade path for existing Nx10G links used both in long-haul and intra-POP applications," says Dorian Kim, NTT America's Director of Network Development, Global IP Networks. "For long-haul application, we expect 100G Ethernet to offer a cost-competitive and more substantive upgrade path alternative to 40G OC768 technology. We are working with our transport partners to field trial 100G Ethernet as soon as feasible."
He argues that in the intra-POP application, Nx100G Ethernet will offer a smoother and more operationally efficient upgrade path over existing Nx10G Ethernet links. Further, NTT America is seeing a demand for 100G Ethernet as a customer handoff technology for CDNs and the large carrier segments of its customer base. All this adds up to a clear need for 100G Ethernet.
100G Ethernet's limitations and uncertainties 
The 10 and 40km-range forms of the 802.3ba standard do not envisage putting a single 100-Gbit/s signal onto a single optical wavelength. Instead, the standard proposes optically multiplexing lower-bitrate streams onto four wavelengths on the widely spaced 800GHz grid in the 1310nm window to provide a paralleled 4x25-Gbit/s structure. This is essentially because of the difficulties of implementing 100-Gbit/s serial data streams, even with modern electronics.
The combination of 800GHz grid and parallel channels makes 802.3ba too spectrally inefficient for heavyweight telecom use, irrespective of range limitations.
Modulation schemes 
Operators are not going to install new overlay fiber and networks to support 40/100G, so such transmission has to be achieved within the constraints of the existing fiber and ITU-T CWDM/DWDM optical wavelength grids. Although it is possible to support, for example, 100G client interfaces by inverse multiplexing parallel lanes of, say, 10G in a 10x10G format, this creates operational complications in managing such groups of wavelengths, and doesn’t increase the transmission capacity of the links or network as a whole. To do that means increasing the per-wavelength bitrate – ideally to 40/100G per single wavelength. The only way that this can be done within the basic 50GHz optical channel spacing of the ITU-T DWDM grid is to use complex modulation techniques reminiscent of those developed for earlier wireline and wireless communications.
Not only do these techniques need to squeeze much more information into an existing channel bandwidth, but they have to be extremely robust against optical transmission impairments, and these become more pronounced as bit rates increase. 
ADVA Optical Networking (Frankfurt: ADV) has pointed out that, with conventional modulation methods (such as the long-established On-Off Keyed – OOK – modulation), a 100-Gbit/s signal would be 100 times more sensitive to fiber chromatic dispersion (CD) and 10 times more sensitive to polarization mode dispersion (PMD) than a 10-Gbit/s signal.
Many schemes have been proposed, using combinations of optical amplitude, phase, and polarization modulation, and much controversy has followed as to which, if any, is the best (see 40- & 100-Gbit/s Technology & Components and associated message board for some examples of schemes and controversy). For metro and regional applications, for example, DPSK-3ASK, using direct detection and 40G electronics, is favored by ADVA.
The essential technique of any complex modulation method is to increase the number of information bits carried by the optical signals transmitted over the line, so that the electronics and optics can run more slowly than the information or data rate. This means, for example, that a 100G information bitrate could be transported by an optical 40G line signal rate (the baud rate) if each optical signal carries 2.5 information bits. This is what DPSK-3ASK does.
Dual-polarization quadrature phase-shift keying (DP-QPSK) has emerged as an OIF 100G long-haul favorite, as noted above, and appears to have achieved considerable market acceptance – Nortel alone claims more than 40 customers for it since April 2008. But, as always, there are tradeoffs among feasibility, performance, and cost of modulation schemes, and different vendors are likely to continue to differ.
There is thus a circle of innovation appearing in which vendors are using modulation and advanced signal processing to ameliorate fiber impairments as a source of differentiation. As the later page on Devices, Modules & Subsystems
will show, there is a huge burst of activity in developing 40/100G optical modulators. And systems vendors are also in on the act by offering, for example – as Ciena does – combinations of modulation format and CD/PMD management to ease the migration of 10G to 40G wavelengths.
In a nutshell, research and development continue (the European GET project to develop a 100-Gbit/s prototype metro muxponder is an example), so watch this space.
Next Page: Systems