A wall of design ideas, web trends, and tutorials.
Home
About
Jobs
Contact
RSS
Contact
Do you like commerical photography? If you do, this post is for you. I’ve collected 30 awesome Flash-based photography sites. Not only do they have stunning photos, but their Flash design is also amazing. Most of them are designed in full screen mode. So, get your coffee or tea ready and enjoy these beautiful high resolution photos. 
Bergh
Timothy Hogan
Ciriljazbec
John Wright Photo
RW2 Studios
Werkstette
James Day Photo
Jeremy Cowart
Brook Pifer
David Lindsey Wade
Lyndon Wade
Manipulator
SasoKos
Filippa Smedhagen Sund
Miles Aldridge
Egofoto
Seo Hiroshi
Towndrow
FWA Photo
Steffen Jahn
Tom Nagy
Douglas Fisher
Shu Akashi
Joshua Stearns
Kurt Stallaert
Frieke
0-Style
Vilamajo
Javier Ferrer Vidal
Albrecht Gerlach
Delicious
Stumbleupon
Digg
SWFaddress and Best Samples 
Comments
There are 6 comments (+Add)
1
Jimmy Liew http://www.zimliu.com 
August 11th, 2009 at 1:05 am 
Photographers seem to have noticed, that their photos need a clear background to be presented, without any distraction from fancy design elements or textures. But than they noticed, that this would make their websites look boring. So the solution they found was to impress people with their fancy navigations. Stupidly this also distracts from their photos, especially in combination with long loading times.
Most of these websites impress you for about 10 seconds (the loadingtimes not calculated), after that you are just annoyed because you just want to look at the photos, but can’t because you have to figure out how the navigation works or have to wait for the next image to load (because it is as a precaution saved with a enormous resolution much bigger than your screen). And never try to send someone a link to a certain image. You will have to go through this whole “user-experience” again and again if you want to see a certain photo for a second time.
I understand, that photographers want to present their photos in full-screen and flash is the only reasonable way to do so. But what if I don’t want to go fullscreen? Years ago webdesigners learned not to open windows in new tabs, looks like they now have to learn, not to open websites in fullscreen.
But what I really don’t understand what the advantage of flash-based navigation is supposed to be, especially if it breaks just with every navigation habit known to mankind, making it as complicated and cumbersome as possible to get to see the content. And that’s what every website is all about, seeing the content.
I think a static html page (maybe with some Javascript) has a lot of advantages over a flash page. And even the few advantages of a flash page are often wasted or not used improbably, making it quit hard to understand why the viewer has to be punished for wanting to see the photos.
I really beg to all the photographers out there for not to captive their photos in a flash site and at least present me a static alternative page.