既存の企業情報システムを安価に再構築するインフラとしてWebを利用するイントラネットの導入が急速に進行している.しかし, 企業情報システムのイントラネット化には, システム開発の面で次のような問題がある.(1)システム開発を行うための技術としてHTML, Java等をシステム開発者が新たに習得する必要がある.(2)COBOL, PL / I等の正確な精度を保証する10進演算機構が利用できないため, 金額処理を伴ったシステム開発が困難.(3)従来のクライアントサーバシステムや端末に比べてレスポンスが悪い.COBOLスクリプトは, これらの問題を解決するために日立製作所と日立ソフトウェアエンジニアリングが協同開発したスクリプト言語であり, 次のような特長を有する.(1)企業内の情報システム部門で最もよく利用されているCOBOL85をベースにWebに必要な機能に絞り込んだ言語仕様, (2)メインフレーム系のCOBOLと同一精度の10進演算機能をサポート.(3)既存のCOBOL処理系の長所, 短所の分析に基づいた効率のよい実装.これにより次に成果を得た.(1)金額計算など誤差の許されない分野の業務をWeb上で心配なく稼動可能とした.(2)テストデバッガやカバレージのサポートにより大規模な開発プロジェクトでの利用を可能にした.(3)プログラムの保守性を向上する日本語プログラミング機能をサポートした.(4)優れた実行性能を実現できた.
The introduction of intranet which allows to access Web technology is rapidly growing as the infrastructure to restructure existing business information systems within a reasonable cost. However, in terms of system development, use of intranet on the business systems poses the following problems. (1) The system developers must learn new technology such as HTML and Java as the technology for system development. (2) As the decimal arithmetic functions, which guarantee the precision such as in COBOL and PL / I, are not available, it is difficult to develop systems that involves accounting processing. (3) The response time might exceed those of the existing Client and Server systems or terminals. COBOL Script, which is a script language developed jointly by Hitachi Ltd. and Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Ltd. To solve these problems, has the following features. (1) The language specification, which consists of required functions for Web computing, is a subset of COBOL85, which is the most frequently used programming language in business information systems. (2) The decimal arithmetic functions with the same precision as in the standard COBOL85 on main-frame computers are supported. (3) Efficient implementation is based on analysis of the pros and the cons of the COBOL processing system. We obtain the following results; (1) Applications requiring high precision such as accounting processing can be operated on Web. (2) The test debugger and the coverage functions make it possible to use in a large development project. (3) The Japanese programming facility provides good maintainability. (4) Good performance is achieved.