How to Convert TS Files from JVC Everio GZ-HD40 Camcorders to DVD on Mac
What is TS File
“TS" is the abbreviation of "Transport stream" (in high definition). It is a communication protocol for audio, video, and data which is specified in MPEG-2 Part 1, Systems (ISO/IEC standard 13818-1) (TS == Transport Steam).
Nowadays, TS video files are widely spread on the internet as (usually split) recording profiles from HDTV broadcasts. As an MPEG format, there are a variety of players and methods to play back TS files or to "convert" them to more complaint MPEG-2 files for authoring as DVD/ HD DVD. MPEG-2 is the format used in the DVD-Video format and is also part of the HD DVD specification, although it has trouble competing with more compressible formats such as VC-1 and H.264. 
How to Play TS Videos on Mac for free
As we know, there are many TS players for Windows OS, but for Mac, it’s hard to find free players which support ts, mts and m2ts etc. Here I shared there： 
1) VLC player 
VLC can play videos in the AVCHD format, a highly compressed format used in recent HD camcorders.
Tips 
Other available formats of VLC player:
MPEG-2 (ES, PS, TS, PVA, MP3)3GP, ASF, AVI, FLV, MKV, QuickTime, MP4, Ogg, OGM, WAV, , AIFF, MXF, VOB.
2) Mplayer for Mac
MPlayer is another free and open source media player. It supports a wide variety of media formats and can also save all streamed content to a file. 
Rendering of very nice antialiased text-based subtitles is also supported. Click the PLAY button and it will begin to play the TS Videos.
3) MPEG Streamclip 
MPEG Streamclip is a freeware video editor/converter for MPEG-1/MPEG-2, and transport streams. It is created and written entirely by Squared 5 in Italy. 
It can play, edit and export a variety of formats, using a compatible QuickTime codec. 
More information here: How to Play Videos on mac with Freeware 
How to Convert TS Files from JVC Everio GZ-HD40 Camcorders to DVD on Mac
Some Camcorders such as JVC Everio GZ-HD40 also support this HD format.
For Mac users, iDVD can’ t support these TS formats. That' s just the point, if you want to convert your favorite TS videos from JVC Everio GZ-HD40 to DVD as a saving method, how to complete this task ? 
What you need is just a TS Video to DVD Converter for Mac, you can go to see the deatails and download it for free. 
Step 1. Launch TS to DVD converter for Mac
Click the “Add” to import the TS video which you want to convert to DVD.
If you want to make some editing before burning TS videos to DVD on Mac, there are two functions providing for you: Crop and Effect. Just edit it as you like.
Step 2: Edit DVD Menu 
This TS video to DVD Creator for Mac allows you to create your own DVD menu with various built-in resources. 
You can get more information about editing DVD menu on Mac by another cool guide: 
How to Create DVD Menu on Mac
Step 3: Preview the Project 
After finishing all the editing, you can click the "Preview" button on the main interface to preview your DVD project. 
Step 4: Burn TS Video Files
Before burning your DVD on Mac, you can select your DVD type and the output quality at the bottom of the main interface. The recoding time of the DVD is different when you choose different formats or quality. 
After you choose the correct DVD disk and the suitable video quality, you can click the "Burn" button to confirm the burning settings and burn your DVD project. 
Free Try to Burn TS Video to DVD on Mac