Web3D Project by Eyes, JAPAN
Make World 3D! Directory of Web3D, CG, Motion Capture, Hi-Tech Gadget, News for Geeks
EYES JAPAN Web3D Project
Make World 3D! Eyes, JAPANのWeb3D Projectへようこそ。
ここではVicon社のMX40カメラを使ったMotionCaptureやHDRIをはじめ様々な3DCG関連のニュース、
ギャラリー、製品比較、リンク集やSIGGRAPHの紹介、ウェラブル/モバイル/ハイテク系のCoolなGadgetやニュース等も紹介していきます。
みなさまからのタレコミもお待ちしております。
R/C Cockroach レビュー (2009/04/22)
3Dフォーマットのまとめ (2009/03/23)
立体視用実写コンテンツ　撮影レビュー（気合いの同時押し編） (2009/03/23)
Maya2009立体視コンテンツ作成レビュー (2009/03/20)
DLP 3Dディスプレイ　立体コンテンツ再生レビュー (2009/03/15)
P5 Glove レビュー (2009/03/16)
L.A.S.E.R TAG 2.0 レビュー (2009/03/10)
Autodesk MudBox 2009 レビュー (2009/01/28)
ViconGPMaya Plug-in for import V file (2008/09/18)
MotionBuilderレビュー (2008/09/18)
OptiTrack Review 第2回 (2008/07/16)Using Vicon V-file in Maya 2008 (2008/07/10)
HOW TO INSTALL COLLADAMaya PLUG-IN (2008/05/23)
OptiTrack Review セットアップ編 (2008/05/15)
PANORAMIC IMAGE KIT [Japanese | English] (2008/02/04)
ZBrush3.1 Review part2 (2008/01/09)
ZBrush3.1 Review part1 (2008/01/09 Updated!)
HDRI Library (2007/11/15)
第二回　RealFlow 4.3 Review (2007/11/11)
Maxwell Render 1.1 Review（Japanese/English/German/2007/3/27 Updated!)
RealFlow Review（2007/1/27)
3Dマウス SpaceNavigator レビュー（2006/12/26)
3Dプリンタ：MODELA MDX-15（2006/3/24)
Face Casting for Maskmaking（2005/10/6)
How to create polygonfaces（2005/11/13)
RealFlowレビュー（第三回 : 物理シミュレーション編）（2005/8/11)
RealFlowレビュー（第二回 : RealWave編）（2005/6/17)
maxwell Render (in 3D Studio Max) レビュー（2005/5/22)
RealFlowレビュー（第一回：流体シミュレーション編）（2005/4/26)
Max7新機能トランスルーセントレビュー by takuya（2005/1/17)
RFIDレビュー by ichige（2004/12/20)
バーチャルキーボードレビュー by ito（2004/12/1)
Flash Lite レビュー by ito（2004/12/1)
ハプティックレビュー by ito（2004/12/1)
Stargrow 1.0レビュー by aita（2004/11/1)
finalRender mentalRay レンダラー比較レビューby kudo（2004/11/1)
Cg (C for Graphics) レビュー by takuya （2004/10/28)
Shine1.0 レビュー by aita (2004/10/28)
Today marks the unofficial end to one of the most eye-opening holidays I have ever had.  It is my first trip to the United States, my first time flying alone – and having to cope with the sense of uncertainty that came with missing a connecting flight to new Orleans – and of course, the first time attending SIGGRAPH. It had been a fruitful, if exhausting, week, and I feel sad to have to end it before the others. I like to think that I have matured in some ways through the many experiences that this trip brought me; that I have learnt something through the conversations with others; that I have seen the bigger picture that is outside what I know of the world of computer graphics, and that I would use the knowledge to hopefully improve myself to become a better adult.  I believe that it is through observation and communication with other people that one learns the most. How different speakers at the event arouse interest in their audience – or not – is something to observe and learn from. Irregardless of the topic being covered, the speaker's level of self-confidence is even more important than his ability to articulate the English language, as his confidence will too affect the amount of trust that the audience place in his research. There was a Korean speaker for the talk “Contact-Aware non-linear control of dynamic characters” who I compared to a Japanese speaker for a talk the previous day. The Korean speaker's accent was as strong as the Japanese's, and equally difficult to comprehend without the aid of the presentation slides. However, I found myself making an effort to understand him. It was probably because he spoke fluently, unlike the Japanese. Being in a social event as big as SIGGRAPH, or even a simple dinner with a small group of friends has its worth in observing. For example, sitting at the edge or at the end of a table will tend to result in being left out of some of the conversations. Whether one chooses to look attentive (as if listening to everything that is going around) or whether one chooses to look bored makes a lot of difference to the mood of the people seated nearby. It is impossible to disappear out of sight even if one remains silent, after all. There is a Chinese proverb, and also a Japanese equivalent, about a frog living in the well thinking that the circle of sky he sees above him is all that there is to the sky. I was that frog, content to compete in the well I was in. Until now. There is a different, bigger world outside the four walls of the classroom, and much more to learn than what is being taught in school. Even in the same field of 3D computer graphics, what I am learning now is only usage of the software. There are still space-time optimisation and other concepts that are foreign to me, which is common sense to others who are also learning the same subject. Comparing with others in the same environment gives only a rough gauge where I stand relative to the others around me, but it is not enough. There are much more people who have more experience, knowledge and even talent, and it is that larger playing field that matters. YING TONG
本日はCharacter Animationのテクニカルペーパーセッションに参加してきました。 今回はキャラクターアニメーションに関してのシミュレーション関連の論文が非常に多く取り上げられています。 その中でも特に面白かったものに関してご紹介します。 ・Dextrous Manipulation From a Grasping Pose 物体を動かすときに手に加わる力から、手のポーズを推定するという論文です。 手に加わる力を ・hand motion ・hand torque ・object contact position ・hand contact position のそれぞれに分解し 物体が ・回転する ・滑って移動する といった物体状態が変化する状況を加えることで、シミュレーションを行っていました。 結果はかなり良好で、わずかな計算時間で理想的な手のボーンシミュレーションが行えています。 なにやら手がつぶれてしまうことが・・・といったことも聞こえたような気がしますが、このあたりは ジンバルロックによる回転角制限をうまく使えば・・・と思います。 ・Optimal Gait and Form for Animal Locomotion 動物の歩きや走りを自動的かつ高速にシミュレーションしようという論文です。 具体的手法として 間接と間接の間にジョイントを仕込み、その長さと太さの変形具合を調べることで間接の回転量を 決定しようという手法でした。 結果としては ・ボーンのみの動きであったこと ・今までのものとの比較がなかったこと もあって、リアルであるかどうかという点に対しては「？」と思うものがありました。 ・Detail-Preserving Continuum Simulation of Straight Hair 今まで髪の毛のシミュレーションにはガイドヘアー法、全ての髪に対してシミュレーションなど さまざまな手法が試されてきました。 当然もっとも正確な全てに対してシミュレーションをかける手法は人間の髪は平均して10,000本も あるため非常に時間がかかります。 ですので今回は今までの手法を合成し、速度でも精度でも良い結果を出したというものです。 この論文では ・グリッドベースメソッド 碁盤目状にくぎった升目の中で、次はどこのグリッドに向かうかをシミュレーションするというものです。 つまりレイキャストと同じ手法で移動ベクトルがどのグリッドに向かうのかというものを計算していきます。 ・Separation and Density based Simulation 髪と髪がわかれたとき、その間に働く力を計算します。 volumeとdensityという２個のパラメータを用意して髪に設定することで、シミュレーション結果に 加えられます。 結果は現実の髪の写真と近似しています。 その上で計算時間は全ての髪をシミュレーションしたものより非常に早くなっていました。 今後は他のモデルへの適用やいろいろな手法を取り込んでいくとのこと。 非常に楽しみな論文でした。 それではまた次のレポートで。 担当：松浦
SIGGRAPHの見どころはシアターやエキシビションだけではありません。今回のレポートではEmerging TechnologiesとBioLogic Artの二つの展示についてご紹介したいと思います。 Emerging Technologies  略してE-Tech。こちらの展示では学生がさまざま技術を用いて作成されたオリジナルの面白いガジェットや、システム等を見学、体験することができます。展示されているものはどれも将来はこんな技術が普及してそうだなと思わせられるようなものでいっぱいです。ちなみに参加している学生のほとんどはアジア圏の人たちで、日本の大学も多く参加しています。 展示物は実際に触って遊ぶことができるものがほとんどで、展示室は割と多くの人でにぎわっていました。今回はおもしろかったものをいくつかピックアップしてご紹介していきます。 フライパン型のコントローラーの動きをセンサーで感知し、実際に料理をしているようにシミュレートする装置です。フライパンの動きはきれいに画面にフィードアックされていました。
この傘は加えられた振動を記録、再現できるようになっています。これで小雨から大雨はもちろんのこと、ビー玉が落ちてきた時やパスタが落ちてきた時の振動の具合を体感することができます。ただ、現時点では振動のみなのでモノが降ってきたときの圧力が感じられず、まだ完ぺきに再現はできていません。
この傘を二つ用意してそれぞれをリンクさせることで、片方に加えられた振動をもう片方に同時に伝えるといったこともできるそうです。これからどのように応用されていくのか楽しみです。
ハンドライト型のプロジェクターを使って、映し出された妖精を動かすことができます。ホワイトボード上に映し出された妖精は同じくホワイトボード上に描かれた赤と青の色に反応し、燃えたり濡れたりします。
今後は妖精同士が互いに作用しあえるように改良を進めていくそうです。こちらはゲームやデモンストレーションなんかで活躍しそうな技術ですね。
洗濯物をたたんでくれるロボットです。スピードは遅く効率は悪いですが、懸命に働くロボットの姿をなんとも言えない気持ちになります。これがもっと改良されると、部屋を自動で片付けてくれるようなロボットが出来上がるのかなと思いました。こちらもいろいろと発展の幅が大きく、将来が楽しみな技術ですね。
このヘッドフォンをつけると、周りの楽器との位置関係によってよく聞こえてくる楽器が変わります。例えば、ベースの方向を向けばベースの音が周りよりも大きく聞こえ、さらにヘッドフォンの左右を覆うとほとんどベースの音しか聞こえなくなります。この技術が普及すれば今までにないような演奏会や講演会ができそうですね。
フルートだ！
この光るキューブは見た目がとってもきれいです。このキューブはボード上のどこにあるかで光る色が変わります。しかも平面的な移動だけでなく、縦方向の位置もキューブ同士が電波を飛ばすことによって対応しています。
キューブの光りの変わり方がとてもかっこよく、ついつい時間を忘れて遊んでしまいます。
いまはまだ一つ一つのキューブの単価が高く(\10,000ほど)、バッテリーがすぐ切れるなどの問題があり、量産が出来ないらしいですが、将来的にはぜひ商品化してもらいたいものです。
こちらはガラス盤の中の模様がアニメーションしながらきれいなイルミネーションになっています。この装置はガラスにレーザーでアニメーションを投影しているのかと思いきや……
実は最初からガラス盤の円周上にアニメーションがレーザープリントされていました。人間の錯覚を利用した面白い装置ですね。
これは装置内の温度を部分的に操作してヒーターの煙を動かし、それでできた模様をライトアップしています。温度を変えるポイントは何か所もあって、それらを上手く使って色々なパターンを出すことが可能になっています。こちらもなかなかに神秘的できれいなイルミネーションです。
この装置では、大きいディスプレイに移っている海洋生物に手持ちのキューブを近づけると、その海洋生物をキューブの中に移すことができます。
また、キューブのすべての面には立体視ディスプレイがついています。
これは簡単に言うとビデオチャットのビデオの部分が3Dのホログラミングになったものです。もちろんこの映像は実際に話している人の映像で、リアルタイムで流れます。
ひと昔前のSF映画が再現されているみたいでとても面白いですね。
BioLogic Art さて、このBioLogic Artでは何が展示されていたかというと、自然物をテーマとして作成された立体造形物、グラフィックが展示されていました。中にはとても大きな造形物や本物の植物を利用して作成されたものなどもあり、なかなか見応えのある展示となっておりました。もちろん技術的な面でも優れた作品もあり、ただの美術展ではなくSIIGARPHの美術展といえるものでした。残念ながら展示物の写真撮影は固く禁じられていたため、写真を残すことができませんでした。なので、どうしても見たい方は実際にSIIGARAPHにご参加されてみてはいかがでしょうか？ではまた。
AMBO
SIGGRAPH is not just a place to get informed on the latest technology, but also to network with others of similar interests. “The collectible business card game”, an initiative where participants could collect others' business cards and debate how talented others are, is aimed to allow participants to enlarge their network. As an adult who will soon enter the workforce from next year, the importance of networking is already sinking into me. Today, I brought Matsuura-san to a booth in one of the “Emerging Technology” rooms to introduce him to his future colleague. The other party, a girl who boarded the same flights as myself on the way to New Orleans, had mentioned the company she will be working for from next year, and when I found out that Matsuura-san would be entering the same company at the same time as her, it was only natural for me to arrange for them to meet here, one Pacific Ocean away from Japan.  While Matsuura-san was chatting with his future colleague and other students tending the booth, I myself was networking with another graduate student who also took the same flight as I did. We exchanged contacts, and he promised to call should he need my help regarding graphic designing, and offered to help out if I encountered any problems work-wise. I of course gladly took him up on his offer. The networking processes continued into the reception held after the convention today. I listened enviously to accounts by Rebecca and Matsuura-san where they met and even received business cards from people who might be the leads to their future careers. It was a stark contrast how I had spent my time at the reception, where I kept with people I already know.  According to Rebecca, what I lack are: 1.Self-confidence to start and maintain a conversation with a stranger 2.Age to allow others to take myself seriously as an equal 3.Experience, be it work experience or experience alone in a foreign country from which I can pick up survival skills Whatever the catalyst for the start of a conversation, even if it might be an attempt to chat up a lone girl at a party, one never knows if it might lead to the start of a mutually beneficial working relationship. Or it may end up as a shallow acquaintanceship, from which no loss will be made anyway. YING TONG
今回はゲーム関係の話題を中心に研究を行っているGame Paperに参加してきました。 任天堂Wii, Nintendo-DSの好調な売り上げもあってかヒューマンインターフェースに非常に重点を置いた 論文が多く見られました。 それらの論文と特に面白かったものの詳細についてレポートしたいと思います。 ・Presence-Enhancing Real Walking User Interface for First-Person Video Game ヘッドマウントディスプレイ、ヘッドトラッキングを利用した一人称視点のバーチャルリアリティゲームの 開発案とその検証を行っています。 また狭い空間をどのようにすれば利用可能なのかということが非常に面白いポイントです。 この論文によるとバーチャルリアリティにより自然に入り込むためには以下のものが重要であると 述べられています。 H1.I am in virtual environment H2.I am in the real environment これらのほかに現実と仮想世界とをつなぐ１ステップ transitional environment が重要であるとされています。 このトランジショナル環境というものは現実をコピーした空間です。 これが何故重要視されてくるのかをご説明します。 ・現実と仮想現実をつなぐ、「暫定現実」 皆さんはPortalというゲームをご存知ですか？ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wb7aDZeO_MQ Portalというゲームはポータルガンという空間と空間をつなげる能力を持った銃を駆使して、さまざまな障害 を乗り越えて進むというFPSパズルアクションゲームです。 ヘッドマウントディスプレイを装着して部屋の中で実際に歩きながらこのゲームをプレイしていると創造して みてください。 ゲーム内の仮想現実では壁にポータルを作り出して、その部分をくぐり、隣の部屋に進入することができます。 しかし現実の壁に穴は開いておらず、人はそこにぶつかってしまうでしょう。 どうすればこの問題を解決できるでしょうか？ この論文ではこの問題を解決するとともに、その検証を行っています。 １．あなたは目をつぶってまっすぐ歩けますか？ 近距離ならばまっすぐ目標地点にたどり着けるかもしれませんが、１０メートル、２０メートル先ではどうでしょうか？ 答えはNoでしょう。 さらに ２．目から入ってくる情報が直線上を動いていると錯覚させるものであった場合 目をつぶっていても、まっすぐ歩けるかどうかは難しいのに、さらに目から入ってくる情報までゆがんでいます。 この方法をうまく利用すると 実際には曲がって進んでいるが、まっすぐ歩いていると錯覚させる ことが可能となるという仕組みです。 ここで更に現実感を持たせるために先ほどの暫定現実が有効となってきます。 つまり、現実空間のコピー映像ととポータルの位置を調整して、あたかもまっすぐ歩いてぶつかるはずの壁に 穴が開いて、仮想空間に入り込んだ錯覚を起こさせることが可能となるのです。 この手法を使えば、ある程度の空間内で無限に広がるマップを考えることも可能でしょう。 アミューズメント施設などでは非常に面白い手法かもしれません。 担当：松浦
There is an interactive installation in the Information Aesthetics showcase called “decibel 151”, which mixes the concept of social networking with musical taste and music recommendations.  It works with a member entering a virtual space wearing a headphone. Stepping into different white circles projected onto the ground will allow him to listen to the different music that is assigned to each circle. On each circle is tagged with the name of the person to which it belongs to, and the title of the music, and each circle follows the path taken by the person when he was within the virtual space. The concept behind this original idea seems to be a paradox. As written in the explanatory notes, headphoned individuals can 'hear' other headphoned individuals, henceforth connecting with their surroundings using the same means they had used for disconnection.  I tried on the headphones, and found myself trying to follow the paths of each moving circles to continue listening to the music assigned to them; moving onto new ones only when I lost the previous one. After I was done, I stepped out, and seeing my own circle projected in the space gave me a strange sense of satisfaction knowing that I too have left my mark for someone else to find and listen to. A talk by two different speakers on creating painterly effects in the morning made me think about “right” and “wrong” in the entertainment (or creative) industry. The first speaker was from Disney, and he demonstrated the method the team went about in creating the abstract look in their new movie “Bolt”. The second speaker, a freelancer, too talked about creating abstract images using Lighwave. However, he started his presentation by saying that the speaker from Disney had already covered everything he was going to, and disclaimed that Disney's method was the “correct” way, while his was the “wrong” one. It drew laughs, and that might have been his intention, but I wonder if that sentence did in fact reflect what he really felt - inferior to Disney, and acceptive of that, if only because it was a world-famous and successful company.  Both talks were equally interesting and informative. However, I listened to the talk on Disney's method with the secret elation of a fan being revealed the behind-the-scenes secrets, and listened to the talk by the freelancer while scribbling down notes like an eager student. The freelancer's method, which made use of commercial software as opposed to Disney's in-house shaders and programming, was accessible to an amateur like me, and therefore easier to understand. In fact, it inspired me to do something similar. To me, the freelancer's method and results were in no way inferior to Disney's. There is no “right” or “wrong” in the creative field. Of course the result had to match what was required in the first place, but what mattered was the experimentation, the process of getting a problem solved.  YING TONG