Siggraph終了、お疲れ様でした。 AutodeskAreaにて、セミナーの録画ビデオが公開されております。 英語ですが見てるだけでもとても面白いものです。Psyopによるメイキング等、非常に高度な softimageの使い方は見ものです。「波」「水」の表現を行うためのツールが紹介されてます。 他、softimage2010の新機能紹介ビデオもチェック。  
Siggraph 2009 - Psyop/Mass Market
Psyop’s Florian Witzel takes you inside the making of commercials for
milk and “Absolut Vodka” using Autodesk®Softimage® and Autodesk Flame®
software.  
Siggraph 2009 - Autodesk Entertainment Pipeline - Part2
A look at the dynamics engine in Autodesk® Maya® software.
Siggraph 2009 - Autodesk Entertainment Pipeline - Part1 
Siggraph 2009 - Autodesk Softimage 2010
Take a look at an overview of Autodesk®Softimage® 2010 and ICE, the
software’s fully multi-threaded visual programming language.  
Marc Petit - Welcome message Siggraph® 2009
Marc welcomes you to AREA’s virtual SIGGRAPH® and recaps the exciting
news we’ll bring you from the show in New Orleans during the week of
August 3.     
AREA’s SIGGRAPH MasterClasses moving to new servers 
The overwhelming popularity of the virtual SIGGRAPH® MasterClasses has
challenged AREA’s powerful servers. To ensure we continue to provide
fast access to these and all of AREA’s content and functions, we need
to relocate the MasterClasses to new servers. Your experience in
accessing this valuable learning material is important to us. 
Downloads to resume next week 
There will be a short interruption in our ability to deliver this
content to you. The six free MasterClasses that were available
throughout SIGGRAPH will be re-posted next week. Not only will your
access to the data improve, but so will your ease-of-use. 
MasterClasses to be available in nine languages 
In order to improve access to worldwide audiences, we’ll be delivering
the MasterClasses with subtitles in nine languages when downloads
resume. These translated versions will rollout gradually over the next
few weeks and we anticipate all of them to be available by
mid-September. Comeback to AREA for MasterClasses in English,
Portuguese, Japanese, Simplified Chinese, French, German, Russian,
Spanish, and Korean. We’ll you see back here in a few days. 
All recorded streamed content is available here | Find AREA’s SIGGRAPH 2009 page here 
Thank you for making this online event a great success ! 
返信する
返信する