For Immediate Release June 23, 2009
Contact
Leigh-Anne Anderson
leighanne@andersonartcollective.com
310.990.5752
Mr. Zog and Anderson Brothers Bring Sexy Back to the Contemporary Art World
Santa Barbara, CA - What happens when contemporary art meets surfboard wax? Avid surfers and contemporary artists Sean Anderson and Benjamin Anderson in collaboration with Zog’s Sex Wax have made the magic happen. With a nod from Mr. Zog, the duo has created a series of multicolored wax sculptures, constructed completely out of surfboard wax. Art collectors and surfers, meet Sexy Skull.
Sexy Skulls will be released at the opening of Rogue Wave, a contemporary survey of surf art on the 27th of June at the Anderson Art Collective. Seven limited editions of the skull will be available, each adhering to Zog’s world famous scents and colors. “We are very excited to merge an icon of surf culture with the contemporary art world … and make it smell good,” said the Anderson Brothers.
Since 1972 Mr. Zog has dedicated himself to manufacturing and marketing surf-related products including Sex Wax, the undisputed worldwide leader in surfboard wax. Sex Wax Inc. is located south of Santa Barbara in Carpinteria, just a stone's throw from the world famous wave at Rincon and a brisk walk from the Anderson Brothers’ Studio.
Sexy Skull is just one of the projects underway by the entrepreneurial Anderson Brothers, each a successful artist in his own right. “The collaborations allow us to pursue tangents that individually we might have considered too unorthodox,” note the siblings who say there is another unprecedented release in the pipeline for the fall.
With their father, veteran fine artist Ron Anderson, they have opened Anderson Art Collective, a contemporary gallery located in the historic Henry Fish Seed Company building at the entrance to Carpinteria State Beach. After their successful inaugural show in May, they are now presenting Rogue Wave, a contemporary surf show that Santa Barbara’s Independent art critic Aly Comingore says “might just be the surf art exhibit of the year”. ( http://www.independent.com/news/2009/jun/21/rogue-wave-open-anderson-art-collective/ )
Rogue Wave opens in Carpinteria on Saturday June 27th at 410 Palm Avenue with a daylong reception from 10am to 10pm benefiting the Surfrider Foundation. Five percent of sales and all proceeds from the sale of refreshments by Island Brewery, go to the local chapter. ( http://www.surfrider.org/santabarbara )
The seven limited editions of Sexy Skull can only be purchased through Anderson Art Collective. For more information and inquiries please contact the gallery at 805.684.8783 or log on to http://www.andersonARTcollective.com.
###