Magical RealismA literary mode rather than a distinguishable genre,magical realism aims to seize the paradox of the union of opposites. For instance, it challenges polar opposites like life and death and thepre-colonial past versus the post-industrial present.  Magical realismis characterized by two conflicting perspectives, one based on a rationalview of reality and the other on the acceptance of the supernatural asprosaic reality.  Magical realism differs from pure fantasy primarilybecause it is set in a normal, modern world with authentic descriptionsof humans and society.  According to Angel Flores, magical realisminvolves the fusion of the real and the fantastic, or as he claims, "anamalgamation of realism and fantasy".  The presence of the supernaturalin magical realism is often connected to the primeval or "magical’ Indianmentality, which exists in conjunction with European rationality. According to Ray Verzasconi, as well as other critics, magical realismis "an expression of the New World reality which at once combines the rationalelements of the European super-civilization, and the irrational elementsof a primitive America."  Gonzalez Echchevarria believes that magicalrealism offers a world view that is not based on natural or physical lawsnor objective reality.  However, the fictional world is not separatedfrom reality either.BackgroundThe term "magical realism" was first introducedby Franz Roh, a German art critic, who considered magical realism an artcategory.  To him, it was a way of representing and responding toreality and pictorially depicting the enigmas of reality.  In LatinAmerica in the 1940s, magical realism was a way to express the realisticAmerican mentality and create an autonomous style of literature.Characteristics of Magical RealismHybridity—Magical realists incorporate many techniques that havebeen linked to post-colonialism, with hybridity being a primaryfeature.  Specifically, magical realism is illustrated in the inharmoniousarenas of such opposites as urban and rural, and Western and indigenous. The plots of magical realist works involve issues of borders, mixing, andchange.  Authors establish these plots to reveal a crucial purposeof magical realism:  a more deep and true reality than conventionalrealist techniques would illustrate.Irony Regarding Author’s Perspective—The writer must have ironicdistance from the magical world view for the realism not to be compromised.Simultaneously, the writer must strongly respect the magic, or else themagic dissolves into simple folk belief or complete fantasy, split fromthe real instead of synchronized with it.  The term "magic" relatesto the fact that the point of view that the text depicts explicitly isnot adopted according to the implied world view of the author.  AsGonzales Echevarria expresses, the act of distancing oneself from the beliefsheld by a certain social group makes it impossible to be thought of asa representative of that society.Authorial Reticence—Authorial reticence refers to the lack ofclear opinions about the accuracy of events and the credibility of theworld views expressed by the characters in the text.  This techniquepromotes acceptance in magical realism.  In magical realism, the simpleact of explaining the supernatural would eradicate its position of equalityregarding a person’s conventional view of reality.  Because it wouldthen be less valid, the supernatural world would be discarded as falsetestimony.The Supernatural and Natural—In magical realism, the supernaturalis not displayed as questionable.  While the reader realizes thatthe rational and irrational are opposite and conflicting polarities, theyare not disconcerted because the supernatural is integrated within thenorms of perception of the narrator and characters in the fictional world.ThemesThe idea of terror overwhelms the possibility ofrejuvenation in magical realism.  Several prominent authoritarianfigures, such as soldiers, police, and sadists all have the power to tortureand kill. Time is another conspicuous theme, which is frequently displayedas cyclical instead of linear.  What happens once is destined to happenagain.  Characters rarely, if ever, realize the promise of a betterlife.  As a result, irony and paradox stay rooted in recurring socialand political aspirations.  Another particularly complex theme inmagical realism is the carnivalesque.  The carnivalesque is carnival’sreflection in literature.  The concept of carnival celebrates thebody, the senses, and the relations between humans.  "Carnival" refersto cultural manifestations that take place in different related forms inNorth and South America, Europe, and the Caribbean, often including particularlanguage and dress, as well as the presence of a madman, fool, or clown. In addition, people organize and participate in dance, music, or theater.Latin American magical realists, for instance, explore the bright life-affirmingside of the carnivalesque. The reality of revolution, and continual politicalupheaval in certain parts of the world, also relates to magical realism. Specifically, South America is characterized by the endless struggle fora political ideal.Magical Realist AuthorsGabriel Garcia Marquez Ben Okri Isabel Allende Syl Cheney-Coker Kojo Laing Allejo Carpentier Toni Morrison Kwsme Anthony Appiah Mario Vargas Llosa  Examples of Magical Realism in the works of Marquez and OkriIn One Hundred Years of Solitude, Marquezincorporates many supernatural motifs like levitation and flying carpets. Marquez also creates, in the tradition of the grotesque carnival and supernaturalrealism, the character of Melquiades, who is an overweight gypsy with supernaturalpowers.  His novel contains powerful images of paradoxical bodilydisgust and celebration, ambivalent celebration and laughter, and the reconstructionof human shapes, all of which exemplify characteristics of magical realism. In this novel and others, Marquez utilizes ironic distance.  Okri’sTheFamished Road also incorporates several characteristics of magicalrealism.  Specifically, examples of hybridity occur often.  Forinstance, after the character Azaro wrongly believes a figure by the riverto be the ferryman of the dead, he learns that she is in fact a hybridwoman, young in body but ‘with an old woman’s face’.  The illustrationis also a hybrid of ancient ritual and custom.  Also, The FamishedRoad depicts the theme of political struggle and political corruption. The character Madame Koto is implied in the corruption of modern Nigerianpolitics.  She encapsulates the new power herself, rather than itstransgression, foreshadowing the country’s civil war to come.  Okriuses ironic distance in this novel as well.    Works CitedChanady, Amaryll Beatrice.  Magical Realism and the Fantastic. New York:  Garland Publishing, Inc, 1985.Cooper, Brenda.  Magical Realism in West African Literature. London:  Routledge Publishing, 1998.Danow, David K.  The Spirit of Carnival: Magical Realism andthe Grotesque.  Kentucky:  The University Press of Kentucky,1995.Related SitesGabriel Garcia MarquezbackgroundMagical realismin contemporary British fictionQuestion/answersegment on magical realismMagical realism in AnneLandsman’s novelAuthor: Lindsay Moore, Fall 1998   Linkswithin this sitePostcolonial Studies at Emory Introduction Authors Theorists Terms& Issues(Image of an "Homme Carrefour" from Donald J. Cosentino'sSacredArts of Haitian Vodou [Los Angeles: UCLA Fowler Museum of CulturalHistory, 1995].)