http://rapidshare.com/files/266099728/The_Stone_Roses_documentary.wmv | 203755 KB
Do you want to send your files with ease and speed? You can find out how to do that here.
Please note our Terms of use and Premium Features.
Other payment options
Our reseller network is growing, so we can offer alternative payment options in an increasing number of countries. If PayPal is not an option for you, you can purchase a Premium Account from one of our authorized Resellers.
Additional notes
It is a pleasure to welcome you as a new Premium User. Our aim is to have loyal customers who choose RapidShare with conviction. Therefore we do not extend your account automatically, but leave the choice to you.
The entire payment process is, of course, SSL encrypted. It could happen that the payment systems are busy and there are small delays in the transfer to our system. In this case we ask for your patience.
PayPal
After the payment using PayPal, the system guides you back to our site. Once the PayPal payment is confirmed at RapidShare, your login information will appear on the browser and is sent to you by e-mail.
This process should not take longer than 30 seconds. Please understand that your account cannot be set up immediately in case the transaction is delayed. If you have problems with the payment process, please contact our Support.
Reseller 
If you purchased your access from a Reseller, please contact the respective partners for support requests.
1 With the RapidShare-Manager, or another Uploader with Upload-Resume functionality
2 Limitless expanding by acquiring additional TrafficShare packages. A premium account enables you to download 5
Gigabyte per day, that's 5.000.000.000
byte. The volume not used is automatically transferred to the following day, up to a maximum of 25
gigabyte. If the complete download capacity is used up during one day, the premium-user is able to save another 5
gigabyte the following day.
3 Your files are only deleted once you close your Account. You can use 500 Gigabyte (500.000.000.000 Byte) storage space.
4 We will vary the download speed according to our bandwidth usage and available slots.