Fresh evidence has emerged of the stigma surrounding mental health problems.A poll by YouGov suggests that more than one in three of the public think people with schizophrenia are likely to be violent. Two short films that challenge this misconception have been released. They can be viewed online and will soon be screened in cinemas. The opening frames create a mood of menace and tension -- with shifting shadows, eyes twitching, a jarring soundtrack, and the flashing banner "Schizo". Bit by bit the camera edges closer to white creaky door..... And then, behind it, there is Stuart - pouring a cup of tea, and talking about his life with schizophrenia. "Hi there. I'm sorry to disappoint you if you were expecting a lunatic with a knife and some sort of rampage," he says. He explains he was diagnosed with the condition 12 years ago. Full lifeHe says many people with mental illness face prejudice, but that he had family and friends to help him lead a full life. The film's director, Jonathan Pearson, says he wants to make people confront their own attitudes about mental illness and violence. "It challenges it by using the typical conventions of a horror movie, and then half way through the film we change," he said. "All the lights change from a horror section to a very inviting comfortable environment. "So it has taken what you think, flipped it and used it against you." The film is part of a wider campaign - called time to change - that has been set up to tackle the stigma surrounding mental health. 
The other film, called "Kid's Party" features Stuart "scaring" children with a giant spider made out of balloons. Charities involved, including Mind, Rethink and Mental Health Media are exasperated over the way mental illness is often portrayed. The Sun's "Bonkers Bruno locked up" headline about Frank Bruno is the most notorious example from news coverage. But campaigners say films - like the Jim Carrey comedy "Me Myself and Irene" - can reinforce prejudice. Campaigners point out that the risk of being killed by a psychotic stranger is about the same as a fatal lightning strike. Initial warinessStuart Baker Brown, who plays himself in "Schizo", says people are often wary when they hear he's had mental health problems.