Journalist Issa
Saharkhiz was arrested on 4 July 2009. Amnesty International
considers him to be a prisoner of conscience, held solely on
account of the peaceful expression of his views, including
regarding the outcome of the election and is at risk of torture or
other ill-treatment.
Issa Saharkhiz (aged
56), journalist and a campaigner for presidential candidate Mehdi
Karroubi was arrested in Northern Iran on 4 July and taken away to
an undisclosed location. His whereabouts have still
not been disclosed by the Iranian authorities, despite his family
and lawyer’s efforts, putting him at
danger of torture. Amnesty International fears that he has been
subjected to enforced disappearance.
On 20 June 2009, his family home
in Tehran was raided whilst he was travelling in Northern Iran and
his computer and elections campaigning materials supporting the
opposition presidential candidate Mehdi Karroubi were confiscated.
On 2 July, Issa Saharkhiz had posted an article on news website
Rooz in which he criticized the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Sayed
‘Ali Khamenei.
Journalist Issa Saharkhiz is the co-founder of Iran’s
Association for the Defence of Press Freedom. He is the former
editor of the monthly magazine Aftab and the newspaper
Eghtesad, both suspended in 2004 and 2005 respectively.
PLEASE WRITE
IMMEDIATELY in Persian, Arabic, English, French or your own
language:
calling on the
Iranian authorities to immediately and unconditionally release Issa
Saharkhiz as he is a prisoner of conscience held solely on account
of his peaceful exercise of his rights to freedom of
expression;
urging the
authorities to immediately disclose his whereabouts and to ensure
that he is allowed immediate access to his family members, lawyer
of his choice and to any medical treatment he may require;
urging the
authorities to ensure that Issa Saharkhiz is protected from all
forms of torture or other ill-treatment;
calling on the
authorities to remove unlawful restrictions on freedoms of
expression, association and assembly in Iran.