Gray Menace
Why Japan's aging, shrinking population is bad for the United States.
BY BRAD GLOSSERMAN, TOMOKO TSUNODA | JULY 24, 2009
Unfortunately, Japan is merely the leading edge of a demographic
tsunami in Northeast Asia. Aging, the rise of a middle class, and the desire to
stimulate domestic demand more generally will transform trans-Pacific balances.
As Japan grapples
with its demographic transformation, China
and South Korea
will look to fill the gap. (In fact, both countries also face demographic
trajectories similar to Japan's, but they have more effective options to deal
with this shift. China can lift its one-child policy or draw on its
considerable diaspora; Korea has opened the door to foreign brides and there is
always the prospect of an influx of youth from unification.) Japan has purchased considerable influence in the region by
virtue of its foreign investment, but those days are over, and it's still
unclear what the balance of power will look like in the future.
In any event, however, there are some ways for Japan -- and the United States -- to make the most
of its aging problem. To begin, Japan must embrace the prospects for diplomatic
progress that its "golden years" could bring. As Japan's population
grows older, fears of the country's
remilitarization will diminish, which should create a thaw that could facilitate
deeper integration within Asia and the forging of a Tokyo-Beijing axis, similar
to France and Germany's in the European Union. Japan's weakening could actually be
a positive force in the region: A country with diminished resources is more
inclined to reach out to other nations for help in dealing with shared problems.
(Of course, this will require some far-sighted diplomacy by Seoul
and Beijing; they could just as easily be
tempted to settle old scores and grievances with a weakened Japan.)  
The United States
has a lot to do as well. To start with, Washington
needs to develop a new paradigm for its alliance with Japan. Japan
remains a rich country, with much to contribute -- if it chooses to do so. So Washington
must encourage Japan to keep an eye on the horizon and shoulder some clearly defined
international responsibilities, while it still has the capacity. Quid pro quos
are out: Both countries should think in terms of public goods that serve
regional and larger interests. That could mean the provision of human capital throughout
the region to institutionalize good governance or sustainable development, or reinvigorated
diplomacy on economic or trade issues. Similarly, the alliance must diversify
and focus less on military issues and more on security broadly defined, whether
this is fighting disease, protecting critical infrastructure, or stemming the
spread of weapons of mass destruction, to
name but three areas where Japan can make significant contributions.
Together, the United States
and Japan
need to promote the development and strengthening of regional institutions.
There is a tendency in both countries to see East Asian integration as a threat
or challenge to U.S.
relations with Asia and ties to Japan.
That too is short-sighted. Multilateralism and bilateralism should not be seen
as exclusive options. More effective multilateralism will deepen ties among
nations, contribute to regional stability, and facilitate problem-solving. The
process should begin now, while Japan still has more leverage and influence
over the development of institutions and norms.
Of course, keeping Asia on track as Japan heads into this
demographic decline will be a difficult task. The combination of a rising China, a shrinking Japan,
and a more coherent Asia will fundamentally alter the dynamics of U.S. engagement with Japan. Tokyo
will continue to be America's
ally and partner even as the country ages and its interests evolve -- but only if
both countries begin planning for that future today.