We are releasing a new version of Seesmic Desktop, Version 0.5. To update this version, please click on the link or copy & paste into your browser: http://d.seesmic.com/seesmic/SeesmicDesktop-0.5.air With the help of some of our TeamSeesmic users, here are the features that are included in this version: Inline Autocomplete As
you type out usernames with replies (@’s) or direct messages (d ‘s),
Seesmic Desktop will list out potential usernames based on your history
of sending messages to your friends and followers. With this convenient
and easy to use function, Seesmic Desktop will help you with the
correct username and avoid sending messages to the wrong person. 
Home Timeline Configuration We’ve added a
new setting in the configuration panel to be able to include or exclude
replies, private messages and search results. Be able to manage your
stream in one column.
Minimize Seesmic Desktop to the System Tray (Windows Only). Based
on popular demand by Windows users, you can now minimize Seesmic
Desktop to the system tray by clicking on the minimize button or
clicking on Seesmic Desktop on the task bar. You can easily bring
Seesmic Desktop back simply by clicking on the system tray icon. This
is a setting that you can configure in the General tab of the
Configuration Panel. Restore Seesmic Desktop When Clicking on the Notification Window When
you click on a notification alert, Seesmic Desktop will be restored
(even from hiding) and be brought out to the front so you can
immediately respond to your messages. Continued UI modifications, enhancements and fixes include: •    Ensure that spam reports are not sent to your Facebook Account. •    Enhancements to the Lookup feature – adjustments for spaces and @’s •    Cursor enhancements to the Search feature •    Corrections to embedded images in messages •    Action buttons appear in column header on column mouse-over •    Enhancements to the Check Update button if no update is available We
would like to thank some of our TeamSeesmic users that helped test and
provided feedback on some of the features to ensure that our updates
were in place.  (If you are interested, you are welcome to join
TeamSeesmic: http://www.teamseesmic.com/ )