Summer Sonic is Japan's biggest festival. This year marked the event's 10th summer of sunshine, sweat and rock’n’roll, prompting its organisers to add a third day to what is usually a two-day event and go for the biggest Western and Japanese acts it could muster. 
Summer Sonic’s Chiba site (it also takes place in Osaka) is vast – three stages inside a cavernous convention centre and then, across a six-lane highway, a 30,000-capacity open-air stadium, a tented stage and a beach stage, plus numerous sideshows, stalls and a casino. Bands play from 10.30am till nearly 5am, which means sleep goes out the window. 
The Big Pink played a lunchtime set on the Friday – though surely it’s never too early for 40 minutes of guitar-grating shoebaggy noisebeat. Well, maybe too early for most people, but the few hundred punters who turned out for them went nuts for ‘Velvet’.
Jenny Lewis was kitted out for seaside fun in dungaree shorts for her set on the Beach Stage, her dusty Americana and heart-bursting voice bigger than the bay beside us. 
continued...
Japanese techno-rock outfit Boom Boom Satellites raped the Marine Stadium PA with their seat-rattling basslines. The band are far more suited to the dark, but that didn’t stop punters dancing madly to their afternoon set.
Nine Inch Nails came on stage with enough dry ice to frighten a fireman, cramming their 20-year career into a 70-minute final farewell before a bulging Trent Reznor retires from performing to sort out the music industry. As if on cue, the heavens opened within about 20 minutes, with jagged lightning, rolling thunder and pummelling rain upping the raw atmosphere.
We got up early on Saturday for a pop fix – first Japanese all-girl ska unit Oreskaband, whose high-energy show packed out the Beach Stage; and then Little Boots, who brought her Tenori-on back to its home country for her set on the Sonic Stage. 
In ‘Primary Colours’, The Horrors have finally made a record that lives up to their hairstyles, and they unleashed dark washes of noise that exploded into bursts of crashing rhythm on the same stage. If anywhere understands goth, it’s Japan, and the boys were well received.
CSS are super-hot in Japan, where Brazilians make up the largest ex-pat community. But while the crowd lapped up earlier tracks such as ‘Let’s Make Love And Listen To Death From Above’, the newer material didn’t quite do it.
Saturday’s special was, erm, The Specials, whose Mountain Stage set became one huge skankfest. Terry Hall, in a suit and tie despite the intense heat, led the band through upbeat ska, whimsical ska, mournful ska and political ska, while Neville Staple whipped off his short and danced around like Maxim Prodigy’s granddad.
Lady Gaga opened the Midnight Sonic Stage with her highly polished but bitterly hollow show, all slick choreography and ostentatious costume changes (we helped her wardrobe lady get the clothes rack onto the stage because it was too heavy for one person to push) but - and let’s not kid ourselves - no decent tunes. 
The best band of the day by far was Midori. Hailing from Osaka and playing punishing, aggressive jazz-punk, the super-tight band are fronted by Mariko Goto, a girl whose tiny frame belies a predilection for punching her fans (or herself) in the face. Their 2.30am show was the most visceral, vicious thing all weekend.
Well, not as vicious as Sunday’s hangover, as we made our way out for a lunchtime set by Puffy AmiYumi. 
The Japanese duo are a household name here, and have already made waves in the States; their disco-rock and punk-pop tunes sent the jam-packed Island Stage tent into a frenzy.