Bringing you the truth in the form of fashion!What a fun weekend!!! I will be sure to post pictures and story later today or tomorrow. I was kind of exhausted after I got home and felt asleep super early. I have tons of pictures to go through! Everyone loved the new Gap jeans. I was a little nervous because my friends are very picky when it comes to things like jeans… but they were very impressed, which was awesome. Ok, more on this later.
Today’s designer is a little shot of color to brighten up your Monday morning (it is pretty dreary here in The Bean). Ruffeo Hearts Lil Snotty specializes in super quality, handmade apparel. Made by designers R. Mackswell Sherman, and Sarah Jones in Redhook, Brooklyn, this  small, ethical  homegrown brand is sure to please.
Their studio sits sea side, complete with a glimmering view of the Statue of Liberty right across the water providing the designers with inspiration and hope! RHLS is also part of a wonderful business model called Parachute, (a new project by the founder of Etsy.com). They are exploring ways to help cottage industry pioneers take their business to the next level . . . compete with mainstream fashion/production industry by providing subsidies and educational opportunities. By supporting RHLS your are supporting the future of handmade industry.
Additionally, everything is hand made from 100% recycled materials. Innovative function!
Enjoy and I will be sure to post more about this weekend as soon as I have time.
Album of the Day: 
Afreekanxpress - Remember Senegal  is super chill and has put me in an awesome mood this morning. You can download the entire album for free at jamendo.
For someone who has been blushing as non-stop as me . . . today’s designer is an ironic choice! Blushless is the brain child of German designer Liv Lundelius. The daughter of a Punk-disco-club owner father, and a bohemian traveling mother, her story is anything but typical… 
Taken through southern Europe in a hippy camper van with her mom until she was five, her unusual childhood experiences made her an artistic, outgoing and independent person. At 18, she moved to Berlin and studied fashion. Immediately after her Fashion Studies Liv went to New York City, where she spent one season with ThreeAsFour. She came back with the Vision of her own Label BLUSHLESS. 
Liv is a lifetime vegetarian and has always tried to maintain a sustainable lifestyle. She has implemented a sustainable element into her line, taking the old and making it new. Gorgeous!!!
Check out BLUSHLESS on Not Just a Label and be sure to stop by Liv’s blog :).
Side Note:
Have any of you shopped at The Outnet? They have these really cute Moschino shoes for $229.00 (down from $765) (and yes, I realize both prices are ridiculous)…. but was just wondering if anyone has had experience with the site?
Also one of my posts was recently nominated for an award! Please vote for me :). 
Post: Camilla Skovgaard and More 
I should be on the T right now, but I just had to share designer erinleighheart with you before I left. I looooove jersey knit dresses. They look amazing and are super comfortable! I packed like 3 of them for our little girls weekend on the CT shore starting… tomorrow! I’m really excited because the girls and I are going to be sampling Gap’s new Born to Fit line! (Brand About Town was nice enough to provide the goods!) It’s a little get away from work/ work on my tan / indulge in new jeans party! I am so excited!
Other cool sites that have had Gap/ Brand About Town sponsored events:
We are Not Martha 
Platinum Blond Life 
Joe and Besty
As always, more later….