Risk Management, Sustainability, XBRL and Innovation Can you imagine of a better combination? 
*new* RAAS Writes to the SEC in response / support of the SIF letter to the SEC of 21 July 2009, recommending mandatory Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting. 
Key points: Reporting requirement already exists: Regulation S-K already requires reporting of any “known trend” or “uncertainty”. A standard would help, but what standard? The SEC should exercise significant caution when selecting the ESG standard or standards that would be required for ESG reporting. XBRL is part of the answer: The SEC should mandate the tagging of ESG information. MD&A needs to be included in tagged data:  The SEC should require that the MD&A be tagged in XBRL. 
Risk, Sustainability, XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language), Innovation - what do these have in common? Everything. Each provides a window on how to improve the quality and effectiveness of the business, preparing to make the future, not wait for the future to be defined. CSR & Sustainability There is no question that the shift is underway. Understanding the company's drivers for introduction of a CSR /
Sustainability program will be important to ensuring that the program
is structured to be responsive to those drivers.  Common drivers for
such programs include: •    Competitive positioning •    External marketing pressure •    Regulatory pressure •    Internal pressures •    BoD or Senior Leadership direction •    External stakeholder interest •    Owner’s concerns It should be noted that the regulatory framework is already in place in the United States that should require approximately 12,000 - 14,000 companies to provide CSR / Sustainability reporting. Read our in-depth discussion here. XBRL; It’s new, or is it? When
you need help implementing a new standard, who do you look for? New
standards don’t suddenly appear; they go through years of
consideration, planning, design and development. XBRL is such a
standard. Yes it’s new to most of us. But there have been some who have
been deeply involved from nearly the beginning. As a concept,
XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) was envisioned in 1999. A
decade later the SEC in the United States has mandated the use of XBRL
for the largest filers, extending to all filers over the next three
years.  In the Netherlands the government has introduced an XBRL filing
programme.  In the UK, HMRC has said that they will require companies
to provide XBRL formatted reporting in 2011. Join our LinkedIN Group dedicated to XBRL matters. Risk Management: Our philosophy is simple... Risk
management is about bringing a perspective to the management of
complicated issues in complex organisations. It is about the management
(and not the avoidance) of risk. It helps to prioritise your work and
that of others in a fast moving context with an approach that is better
than simple intuition and which facilitates communication between
people. It is a style of thought, and is definitely not a paper chase. Innovation Innovation is more than a state of mind, it is the demonstrate experience in taking concepts to market, creating new ideas, and in providing leadership in the communication of new ideas. RAAS Consulting people have direct experience in the design and development of systems for Risk Management, Legislative Compliance, Business Analysis and Planning, and XBRL. The XBRL® Logo is a trademark or service mark
of XBRL International, Inc., registered in the United States and in
other countries